docs/sources/flow/reference/cli/convert.md, before:

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/cli/convert/
labels:
  stage: beta
title: grafana-agent convert
weight: 100
---

# `grafana-agent convert` command

The `grafana-agent convert` command converts a supported configuration format
to Grafana Agent Flow River format.

## Usage

Usage: `grafana-agent convert [FLAG ...] FILE_NAME`

If the `FILE_NAME` argument is not provided or if the `FILE_NAME` argument is
equal to `-`, `grafana-agent convert` converts the contents of standard input. Otherwise,
`grafana-agent convert` reads and converts the file from disk specified by the argument.

There are several different flags available for the `grafana-agent convert` command. You can use the `--output` flag to write the contents of the converted config to a specified path. You can use the `--report` flag to generate a diagnostic report. The `--bypass-errors` flag allows you to bypass any [errors] generated during the file conversion.

The command fails if the source config has syntactically incorrect
configuration or cannot be converted to Grafana Agent Flow River format.

The following flags are supported:

* `--output`, `-o`: The filepath and filename where the output is written.

* `--report`, `-r`: The filepath and filename where the report is written.

* `--source-format`, `-f`: Required. The format of the source file. Supported formats: [prometheus], [promtail].

* `--bypass-errors`, `-b`: Enable bypassing errors when converting.

[prometheus]: #prometheus
[promtail]: #promtail
[errors]: #errors

### Defaults

Flow Defaults are managed as follows:
* If a provided source config value matches a Flow default value, the
property is left off the Flow output.
* If a non-provided source config value default matches a Flow default value,
the property is left off the Flow output.
* If a non-provided source config value default doesn't match a Flow default
value, the Flow default value is included in the Flow output.

### Errors

Errors are defined as non-critical issues identified during the conversion
where an output can still be generated. These can be bypassed using the
`--bypass-errors` flag.

### Prometheus

Using the `--source-format=prometheus` will convert the source config from
[Prometheus v2.45](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/2.45/configuration/configuration/)
to Grafana Agent Flow config.

This includes Prometheus features such as
[scrape_config](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/2.45/configuration/configuration/#scrape_config), 
[relabel_config](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/2.45/configuration/configuration/#relabel_config),
[metric_relabel_configs](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/2.45/configuration/configuration/#metric_relabel_configs),
[remote_write](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/2.45/configuration/configuration/#remote_write),
and many supported *_sd_configs. Unsupported features in a source config result
in [errors].

### Promtail

Using the `--source-format=promtail` will convert the source configuration from
[Promtail v2.8.x](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/v2.8.x/clients/promtail/)
to Grafana Agent Flow configuration.

Nearly all [Promtail features](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/v2.8.x/clients/promtail/configuration/)
are supported and can be converted to Grafana Agent Flow config.

If you have unsupported features in a source configuration, you will receive [errors] when you convert to a flow configuration. The converter will
also raise warnings for configuration options that may require your attention.

Commit message:

Update the Agent CLI topics to clarify flow mode syntax (#4697)
* Update executable name

* More executable name updates

* Change bullet order and add missing info

* Switch to command name remove binary

Co-authored-by: Robert Fratto <robertfratto@gmail.com>

* Update metadata change note to caution

* Swap command order in usage section

* Fix a typo

* General cleanup and formatting

* Remove a gerund

---------

Co-authored-by: Robert Fratto <robertfratto@gmail.com>

docs/sources/flow/reference/cli/convert.md, after:

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/cli/convert/
labels:
  stage: beta
description: The `convert` command converts supported configuration formats to River format.
title: convert command
menuTitle: convert
weight: 100
---

# `convert` command

The `convert` command converts a supported configuration format to Grafana Agent Flow River format.

## Usage

Usage: 

* `AGENT_MODE=flow grafana-agent convert [FLAG ...] FILE_NAME`
* `grafana-agent-flow convert [FLAG ...] FILE_NAME`

   Replace the following:

   * `FLAG`: One or more flags that define the input and output of the command.
   * `FILE_NAME`: The Grafana Agent configuration file.

If the `FILE_NAME` argument is not provided or if the `FILE_NAME` argument is
equal to `-`, `convert` converts the contents of standard input. Otherwise,
`convert` reads and converts the file from disk specified by the argument.

There are several different flags available for the `convert` command. You can use the `--output` flag to write the contents of the converted config to a specified path. You can use the `--report` flag to generate a diagnostic report. The `--bypass-errors` flag allows you to bypass any [errors] generated during the file conversion.

The command fails if the source config has syntactically incorrect
configuration or cannot be converted to Grafana Agent Flow River format.

The following flags are supported:

* `--output`, `-o`: The filepath and filename where the output is written.

* `--report`, `-r`: The filepath and filename where the report is written.

* `--source-format`, `-f`: Required. The format of the source file. Supported formats: [prometheus], [promtail].

* `--bypass-errors`, `-b`: Enable bypassing errors when converting.

[prometheus]: #prometheus
[promtail]: #promtail
[errors]: #errors

### Defaults

Flow Defaults are managed as follows:
* If a provided source config value matches a Flow default value, the property is left off the Flow output.
* If a non-provided source config value default matches a Flow default value, the property is left off the Flow output.
* If a non-provided source config value default doesn't match a Flow default value, the Flow default value is included in the Flow output.

### Errors

Errors are defined as non-critical issues identified during the conversion
where an output can still be generated. These can be bypassed using the
`--bypass-errors` flag.

### Prometheus

Using the `--source-format=prometheus` will convert the source config from
[Prometheus v2.45](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/2.45/configuration/configuration/)
to Grafana Agent Flow config.

This includes Prometheus features such as
[scrape_config](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/2.45/configuration/configuration/#scrape_config), 
[relabel_config](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/2.45/configuration/configuration/#relabel_config),
[metric_relabel_configs](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/2.45/configuration/configuration/#metric_relabel_configs),
[remote_write](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/2.45/configuration/configuration/#remote_write),
and many supported *_sd_configs. Unsupported features in a source config result
in [errors].

### Promtail

Using the `--source-format=promtail` will convert the source configuration from
[Promtail v2.8.x](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/v2.8.x/clients/promtail/)
to Grafana Agent Flow configuration.

Nearly all [Promtail features](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/v2.8.x/clients/promtail/configuration/)
are supported and can be converted to Grafana Agent Flow config.

If you have unsupported features in a source configuration, you will receive [errors] when you convert to a flow configuration. The converter will
also raise warnings for configuration options that may require your attention.
