docs/sources/flow/reference/components/discovery.file.md, before:

---
title: discovery.file
---

# discovery.file

> **NOTE:** In `v0.35.0` of the Grafana Agent, the `discovery.file` component was renamed to [local.file_match][]. From `v0.35.0` onwards, the `discovery.file` 
> component behaves as documented here.

[local.file_match]: {{< relref "./local.file_match.md" >}}

`discovery.file` discovers targets from a set of files, similar to the [Prometheus file_sd_config](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#file_sd_config).

## Usage

```river
discovery.file "LABEL" {
  files = [FILE_PATH_1, FILE_PATH_2, ...]
}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments are supported:

Name               | Type                | Description                                | Default | Required
------------------ | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |---------| --------
`files`            | `list(string)`      | Files to read and discover targets from.   |         | yes 
`refresh_interval` | `duration`          | How often to sync targets.                 | "5m"    | no

The last path segment of each element in `files` may contain a single * that matches any character sequence, e.g. `my/path/tg_*.json`.

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

Name      | Type                | Description
--------- | ------------------- | -----------
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | The set of targets discovered from the filesystem.

Each target includes the following labels:

* `__meta_filepath`: The absolute path to the file the target was discovered from.

## Component health

`discovery.file` is only reported as unhealthy when given an invalid
configuration. In those cases, exported fields retain their last healthy
values.

## Debug information

`discovery.file` does not expose any component-specific debug information.

### Debug metrics

`discovery.file` does not expose any component-specific debug metrics.

## Examples

### Example target files
```json
[
  {
    "targets": [ "127.0.0.1:9091", "127.0.0.1:9092" ],
    "labels": {
      "environment": "dev"
    }
  },
  {
    "targets": [ "127.0.0.1:9093" ],
    "labels": {
      "environment": "prod"
    }
  }
]
```

```yaml
- targets:
  - 127.0.0.1:9999
  - 127.0.0.1:10101
  labels:
    job: worker
- targets:
  - 127.0.0.1:9090
  labels:
    job: prometheus
```

### Basic file discovery

This example discovers targets from a single file, scrapes them, and writes metrics
to a Prometheus remote write endpoint.

```river
discovery.file "example" {
  files = ["/tmp/example.json"]
}

prometheus.scrape "default" {
  targets    = discovery.file.example.targets
  forward_to = [prometheus.remote_write.demo.receiver]
}

prometheus.remote_write "demo" {
  endpoint {
    url = PROMETHEUS_REMOTE_WRITE_URL

    basic_auth {
      username = USERNAME
      password = PASSWORD
    }
  }
}
```

Replace the following:
  - `PROMETHEUS_REMOTE_WRITE_URL`: The URL of the Prometheus remote_write-compatible server to send metrics to.
  - `USERNAME`: The username to use for authentication to the remote_write API.
  - `PASSWORD`: The password to use for authentication to the remote_write API.

### File discovery with retained file path label

This example discovers targets from a wildcard file path, scrapes them, and writes metrics
to a Prometheus remote write endpoint.

It also uses a relabeling rule to retain the file path as a label on each target.

```river
discovery.file "example" {
  files = ["/tmp/example_*.yaml"]
}

discovery.relabel "keep_filepath" {
  targets = discovery.file.example.targets
  rule {
    source_labels = ["__meta_filepath"]
    target_label = "filepath"
  }
}

prometheus.scrape "default" {
  targets    = discovery.relabel.keep_filepath.output
  forward_to = [prometheus.remote_write.demo.receiver]
}

prometheus.remote_write "demo" {
  endpoint {
    url = PROMETHEUS_REMOTE_WRITE_URL

    basic_auth {
      username = USERNAME
      password = PASSWORD
    }
  }
}
```

Replace the following:
  - `PROMETHEUS_REMOTE_WRITE_URL`: The URL of the Prometheus remote_write-compatible server to send metrics to.
  - `USERNAME`: The username to use for authentication to the remote_write API.
  - `PASSWORD`: The password to use for authentication to the remote_write API.

Commit message:

Add more detail to discovery.file.md note

docs/sources/flow/reference/components/discovery.file.md, after:

---
title: discovery.file
---

# discovery.file

> **NOTE:** In `v0.35.0` of the Grafana Agent, the `discovery.file` component was renamed to [local.file_match][],
> and `discovery.file` was repurposed to discover scrape targets from one or more files.
>
> <br>
>
> If you are trying to discover files on the local filesystem rather than scrape
> targets within a set of files, you should use [local.file_match][] instead.

[local.file_match]: {{< relref "./local.file_match.md" >}}

`discovery.file` discovers targets from a set of files, similar to the [Prometheus file_sd_config](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#file_sd_config).

## Usage

```river
discovery.file "LABEL" {
  files = [FILE_PATH_1, FILE_PATH_2, ...]
}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments are supported:

Name               | Type                | Description                                | Default | Required
------------------ | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |---------| --------
`files`            | `list(string)`      | Files to read and discover targets from.   |         | yes 
`refresh_interval` | `duration`          | How often to sync targets.                 | "5m"    | no

The last path segment of each element in `files` may contain a single * that matches any character sequence, e.g. `my/path/tg_*.json`.

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

Name      | Type                | Description
--------- | ------------------- | -----------
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | The set of targets discovered from the filesystem.

Each target includes the following labels:

* `__meta_filepath`: The absolute path to the file the target was discovered from.

## Component health

`discovery.file` is only reported as unhealthy when given an invalid
configuration. In those cases, exported fields retain their last healthy
values.

## Debug information

`discovery.file` does not expose any component-specific debug information.

### Debug metrics

`discovery.file` does not expose any component-specific debug metrics.

## Examples

### Example target files
```json
[
  {
    "targets": [ "127.0.0.1:9091", "127.0.0.1:9092" ],
    "labels": {
      "environment": "dev"
    }
  },
  {
    "targets": [ "127.0.0.1:9093" ],
    "labels": {
      "environment": "prod"
    }
  }
]
```

```yaml
- targets:
  - 127.0.0.1:9999
  - 127.0.0.1:10101
  labels:
    job: worker
- targets:
  - 127.0.0.1:9090
  labels:
    job: prometheus
```

### Basic file discovery

This example discovers targets from a single file, scrapes them, and writes metrics
to a Prometheus remote write endpoint.

```river
discovery.file "example" {
  files = ["/tmp/example.json"]
}

prometheus.scrape "default" {
  targets    = discovery.file.example.targets
  forward_to = [prometheus.remote_write.demo.receiver]
}

prometheus.remote_write "demo" {
  endpoint {
    url = PROMETHEUS_REMOTE_WRITE_URL

    basic_auth {
      username = USERNAME
      password = PASSWORD
    }
  }
}
```

Replace the following:
  - `PROMETHEUS_REMOTE_WRITE_URL`: The URL of the Prometheus remote_write-compatible server to send metrics to.
  - `USERNAME`: The username to use for authentication to the remote_write API.
  - `PASSWORD`: The password to use for authentication to the remote_write API.

### File discovery with retained file path label

This example discovers targets from a wildcard file path, scrapes them, and writes metrics
to a Prometheus remote write endpoint.

It also uses a relabeling rule to retain the file path as a label on each target.

```river
discovery.file "example" {
  files = ["/tmp/example_*.yaml"]
}

discovery.relabel "keep_filepath" {
  targets = discovery.file.example.targets
  rule {
    source_labels = ["__meta_filepath"]
    target_label = "filepath"
  }
}

prometheus.scrape "default" {
  targets    = discovery.relabel.keep_filepath.output
  forward_to = [prometheus.remote_write.demo.receiver]
}

prometheus.remote_write "demo" {
  endpoint {
    url = PROMETHEUS_REMOTE_WRITE_URL

    basic_auth {
      username = USERNAME
      password = PASSWORD
    }
  }
}
```

Replace the following:
  - `PROMETHEUS_REMOTE_WRITE_URL`: The URL of the Prometheus remote_write-compatible server to send metrics to.
  - `USERNAME`: The username to use for authentication to the remote_write API.
  - `PASSWORD`: The password to use for authentication to the remote_write API.
