docs/sources/flow/reference/components/loki.source.kafka.md, before:

---
title: loki.source.kafka
---

# loki.source.kafka

`loki.source.kafka` reads messages from Kafka using a consumer group
and forwards them to other `loki.*` components.

The component starts a new Kafka consumer group for the given arguments
and fans out incoming entries to the list of receivers in `forward_to`.

Before using `loki.source.kafka`, Kafka should have at least one producer
writing events to at least one topic. Follow the steps in the
[Kafka Quick Start](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#quickstart)
to get started with Kafka.

Multiple `loki.source.kafka` components can be specified by giving them
different labels.

## Usage

```river
loki.source.kafka "LABEL" {
	brokers    = BROKER_LIST
	topics     = TOPIC_LIST
	forward_to = RECEIVER_LIST
}
```

## Arguments

`loki.source.kafka` supports the following arguments:

Name                     | Type                   | Description          | Default | Required
------------------------ | ---------------------- | -------------------- | ------- | --------
`brokers`                | `list(string)`         | The list of brokers to connect to Kafka.                 |                       | yes
`topics`                 | `list(string)`         | The list of Kafka topics to consume.                     |                       | yes
`group_id`               | `string`               | The Kafka consumer group id.                             | `"loki.source.kafka"` | no
`assignor`               | `string`               | The consumer group rebalancing strategy to use.          | `"range"`             | no
`version`                | `string`               | Kafka version to connect to.                             | `"2.2.1"`             | no
`use_incoming_timestamp` | `bool`                 | Whether or not to use the timestamp received from Kafka. | `false`               | no
`labels`                 | `map(string)`          | The labels to associate with each received Kafka event.  | `{}`                  | no
`forward_to`             | `list(LogsReceiver)`   | List of receivers to send log entries to.                |                       | yes
`relabel_rules`          | `RelabelRules`         | Relabeling rules to apply on log entries.                | `{}`                  | no

`assignor` values can be either `"range"`, `"roundrobin"`, or `"sticky"`.

The `relabel_rules` field can make use of the `rules` export value from a
`loki.relabel` component to apply one or more relabeling rules to log entries
before they're forwarded to the list of receivers in `forward_to`.

## Blocks

The following blocks are supported inside the definition of `loki.source.kafka`:

Hierarchy | Name | Description | Required
--------- | ---- | ----------- | --------
authentication | [authentication] | Optional authentication configuration with Kafka brokers. | no
authentication > tls_config | [tls_config] | Optional authentication configuration with Kafka brokers. | no
authentication > sasl_config | [sasl_config] | Optional authentication configuration with Kafka brokers. | no
authentication > sasl_config > tls_config | [tls_config] | Optional authentication configuration with Kafka brokers. | no

[authentication]: #authentication-block
[tls_config]: #tls_config-block
[sasl_config]: #sasl_config-block

### authentication block

The `authentication` block defines the authentication method when communicating with the Kafka event brokers.

Name                     | Type          | Description | Default | Required
------------------------ | ------------- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`type`                   | `string`      | Type of authentication. | `"none"` | no

`type` supports the values `"none"`, `"ssl"`, and `"sasl"`. If `"ssl"` is used,
you must set the `tls_config` block. If `"sasl"` is used, you must set the `sasl_config` block.

### tls_config block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/tls-config-block.md" source="agent" >}}

### sasl_config block

The `sasl_config` block defines the listen address and port where the listener
expects Kafka messages to be sent to.

Name                     | Type          | Description | Default | Required
------------------------ | ------------- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`mechanism` | `string` | Specifies the SASL mechanism the client uses to authenticate with the broker. | `"PLAIN""` | no
`user`      | `string` | The user name to use for SASL authentication. | `""` | no
`password`  | `string` | The password to use for SASL authentication. | `""` | no
`use_tls`   | `bool`   | If true, SASL authentication is executed over TLS. | `false` | no

## Labels

The `labels` map is applied to every message that the component reads.

The following internal labels prefixed with `__` are available but are discarded if not relabeled:
- `__meta_kafka_message_key`
- `__meta_kafka_topic`
- `__meta_kafka_partition`
- `__meta_kafka_member_id`
- `__meta_kafka_group_id`

## Exported fields

`loki.source.kafka` does not export any fields.

## Component health

`loki.source.kafka` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid
configuration.

## Debug information

`loki.source.kafka` does not expose additional debug info.

## Example

This example consumes Kafka events from the specified brokers and topics
then forwards them to a `loki.write` component using the Kafka timestamp.

```river
loki.source.kafka "local" {
	brokers                = ["localhost:9092"]
	topics                 = ["quickstart-events"]
	labels                 = {component = "loki.source.kafka"}
	forward_to             = [loki.write.loki.receiver]
	use_incoming_timestamp = true
}

loki.write "local" {
	endpoint {
		url = "loki:3100/api/v1/push"
	}
}
```

Commit message:

Update loki.source.kafka.md (#3448)
Remove non-recommended additional header as pointed out here: https://github.com/grafana/agent/pull/3412#discussion_r1157448010

(cherry picked from commit e2c8f54ee98206ad1f3307563f5197bb6bbe1b41)

docs/sources/flow/reference/components/loki.source.kafka.md, after:

---
title: loki.source.kafka
---

# loki.source.kafka

`loki.source.kafka` reads messages from Kafka using a consumer group
and forwards them to other `loki.*` components.

The component starts a new Kafka consumer group for the given arguments
and fans out incoming entries to the list of receivers in `forward_to`.

Before using `loki.source.kafka`, Kafka should have at least one producer
writing events to at least one topic. Follow the steps in the
[Kafka Quick Start](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#quickstart)
to get started with Kafka.

Multiple `loki.source.kafka` components can be specified by giving them
different labels.

## Usage

```river
loki.source.kafka "LABEL" {
	brokers    = BROKER_LIST
	topics     = TOPIC_LIST
	forward_to = RECEIVER_LIST
}
```

## Arguments

`loki.source.kafka` supports the following arguments:

Name                     | Type                   | Description          | Default | Required
------------------------ | ---------------------- | -------------------- | ------- | --------
`brokers`                | `list(string)`         | The list of brokers to connect to Kafka.                 |                       | yes
`topics`                 | `list(string)`         | The list of Kafka topics to consume.                     |                       | yes
`group_id`               | `string`               | The Kafka consumer group id.                             | `"loki.source.kafka"` | no
`assignor`               | `string`               | The consumer group rebalancing strategy to use.          | `"range"`             | no
`version`                | `string`               | Kafka version to connect to.                             | `"2.2.1"`             | no
`use_incoming_timestamp` | `bool`                 | Whether or not to use the timestamp received from Kafka. | `false`               | no
`labels`                 | `map(string)`          | The labels to associate with each received Kafka event.  | `{}`                  | no
`forward_to`             | `list(LogsReceiver)`   | List of receivers to send log entries to.                |                       | yes
`relabel_rules`          | `RelabelRules`         | Relabeling rules to apply on log entries.                | `{}`                  | no

`assignor` values can be either `"range"`, `"roundrobin"`, or `"sticky"`.

Labels from the `labels` argument are applied to every message that the component reads.

The `relabel_rules` field can make use of the `rules` export value from a
`loki.relabel` component to apply one or more relabeling rules to log entries
before they're forwarded to the list of receivers in `forward_to`.

In addition to custom labels, the following internal labels prefixed with `__` are available 
but are discarded if not relabeled using the `relabel_rules` argument:

- `__meta_kafka_message_key`
- `__meta_kafka_topic`
- `__meta_kafka_partition`
- `__meta_kafka_member_id`
- `__meta_kafka_group_id`

## Blocks

The following blocks are supported inside the definition of `loki.source.kafka`:

Hierarchy | Name | Description | Required
--------- | ---- | ----------- | --------
authentication | [authentication] | Optional authentication configuration with Kafka brokers. | no
authentication > tls_config | [tls_config] | Optional authentication configuration with Kafka brokers. | no
authentication > sasl_config | [sasl_config] | Optional authentication configuration with Kafka brokers. | no
authentication > sasl_config > tls_config | [tls_config] | Optional authentication configuration with Kafka brokers. | no

[authentication]: #authentication-block
[tls_config]: #tls_config-block
[sasl_config]: #sasl_config-block

### authentication block

The `authentication` block defines the authentication method when communicating with the Kafka event brokers.

Name                     | Type          | Description | Default | Required
------------------------ | ------------- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`type`                   | `string`      | Type of authentication. | `"none"` | no

`type` supports the values `"none"`, `"ssl"`, and `"sasl"`. If `"ssl"` is used,
you must set the `tls_config` block. If `"sasl"` is used, you must set the `sasl_config` block.

### tls_config block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/tls-config-block.md" source="agent" >}}

### sasl_config block

The `sasl_config` block defines the listen address and port where the listener
expects Kafka messages to be sent to.

Name                     | Type          | Description | Default | Required
------------------------ | ------------- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`mechanism` | `string` | Specifies the SASL mechanism the client uses to authenticate with the broker. | `"PLAIN""` | no
`user`      | `string` | The user name to use for SASL authentication. | `""` | no
`password`  | `string` | The password to use for SASL authentication. | `""` | no
`use_tls`   | `bool`   | If true, SASL authentication is executed over TLS. | `false` | no

## Exported fields

`loki.source.kafka` does not export any fields.

## Component health

`loki.source.kafka` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid
configuration.

## Debug information

`loki.source.kafka` does not expose additional debug info.

## Example

This example consumes Kafka events from the specified brokers and topics
then forwards them to a `loki.write` component using the Kafka timestamp.

```river
loki.source.kafka "local" {
	brokers                = ["localhost:9092"]
	topics                 = ["quickstart-events"]
	labels                 = {component = "loki.source.kafka"}
	forward_to             = [loki.write.loki.receiver]
	use_incoming_timestamp = true
}

loki.write "local" {
	endpoint {
		url = "loki:3100/api/v1/push"
	}
}
```
