docs/sources/flow/reference/components/loki.source.kubernetes_events.md, before:

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/loki.source.kubernetes_events/
title: loki.source.kubernetes_events
---

# loki.source.kubernetes_events

`loki.source.kubernetes_events` tails events from the Kubernetes API and
converts them into log lines to forward to other `loki` components.

Multiple `loki.source.kubernetes_events` components can be specified by giving them
different labels.

## Usage

```river
loki.source.kubernetes_events "LABEL" {
  forward_to = RECEIVER_LIST
}
```

## Arguments

The component starts a new reader for each of the given `targets` and fans out
log entries to the list of receivers passed in `forward_to`.

`loki.source.kubernetes_events` supports the following arguments:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`job_name` | `string` | Value to use for `job` label for generated logs. | `"loki.source.kubernetes_events"` | no
`namespaces` | `list(string)` | Namespaces to watch for Events in. | `[]` | no
`forward_to` | `list(LogsReceiver)` | List of receivers to send log entries to. | | yes

By default, `loki.source.kubernetes_events` will watch for events in all
namespaces. A list of explicit namespaces to watch can be provided in the
`namespaces` argument.

> **NOTE**: When watching all namespaces, Grafana Agent must have permissions
> to watch events at the cluster scope (such as using a ClusterRoleBinding). If
> an explicit list of namespaces is provided, Grafana Agent only needs
> permissions to watch events for those namespaces.

Log lines generated by `loki.source.kubernetes_events` have the following
labels:

* `namespace`: Namespace of the Kubernetes object involved in the event.
* `job`: Value specified by the `job_name` argument.
* `instance`: Value matching the component ID.

If `job_name` argument is the empty string, the component will fail to load. To
remove the job label, forward the output of `loki.source.kubernetes_events` to
[a `loki.relabel` component][loki.relabel].

For compatibility with the `eventhandler` integration from static mode,
`job_name` can be set to `"integrations/kubernetes/eventhandler"`.

[loki.relabel]: {{< relref "./loki.relabel.md" >}}

## Blocks

The following blocks are supported inside the definition of
`loki.source.kubernetes_events`:

Hierarchy | Block | Description | Required
--------- | ----- | ----------- | --------
client | [client][] | Configures Kubernetes client used to tail logs. | no
client > basic_auth | [basic_auth][] | Configure basic_auth for authenticating to the endpoint. | no
client > authorization | [authorization][] | Configure generic authorization to the endpoint. | no
client > oauth2 | [oauth2][] | Configure OAuth2 for authenticating to the endpoint. | no
client > oauth2 > tls_config | [tls_config][] | Configure TLS settings for connecting to the endpoint. | no
client > tls_config | [tls_config][] | Configure TLS settings for connecting to the endpoint. | no

The `>` symbol indicates deeper levels of nesting. For example, `client >
basic_auth` refers to a `basic_auth` block defined
inside a `client` block.

[client]: #client-block
[basic_auth]: #basic_auth-block
[authorization]: #authorization-block
[oauth2]: #oauth2-block
[tls_config]: #tls_config-block

### client block

The `client` block configures the Kubernetes client used to tail logs from
containers. If the `client` block isn't provided, the default in-cluster
configuration with the service account of the running Grafana Agent pod is
used.

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`api_server` | `string` | URL of the Kubernetes API server. | | no
`kubeconfig_file` | `string` | Path of the `kubeconfig` file to use for connecting to Kubernetes. | | no
`bearer_token` | `secret` | Bearer token to authenticate with. | | no
`bearer_token_file` | `string` | File containing a bearer token to authenticate with. | | no
`proxy_url` | `string` | HTTP proxy to proxy requests through. | | no
`follow_redirects` | `bool` | Whether redirects returned by the server should be followed. | `true` | no
`enable_http2` | `bool` | Whether HTTP2 is supported for requests. | `true` | no

 At most one of the following can be provided:
 - [`bearer_token` argument][client].
 - [`bearer_token_file` argument][client].
 - [`basic_auth` block][basic_auth].
 - [`authorization` block][authorization].
 - [`oauth2` block][oauth2].

### basic_auth block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/basic-auth-block.md" source="agent" >}}

### authorization block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/authorization-block.md" source="agent" >}}

### oauth2 block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/oauth2-block.md" source="agent" >}}

### tls_config block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/tls-config-block.md" source="agent" >}}

## Exported fields

`loki.source.kubernetes_events` does not export any fields.

## Component health

`loki.source.kubernetes_events` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid
configuration.

## Debug information

`loki.source.kubernetes_events` exposes the most recently read timestamp for
events in each watched namespace.

## Debug metrics

`loki.source.kubernetes_events` does not expose any component-specific debug metrics.

## Example

This example collects watches events in the `kube-system` namespace and
forwards them to a `loki.write` component so they are written to Loki.

```river
loki.source.kubernetes_events "example" {
  // Only watch for events in the kube-system namespace.
  namespaces = ["kube-system"]

  forward_to = [loki.write.local.receiver]
}

loki.write "local" {
  endpoint {
    url = env("LOKI_URL")
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Add log_format configuration (text|json)  (#4541)
* Add log_format configuration (logfmt|json) for eventhandler

* Add log_format configuration (logfmt|json) for `loki.source.kubernetes_events` Flow component

docs/sources/flow/reference/components/loki.source.kubernetes_events.md, after:

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/loki.source.kubernetes_events/
title: loki.source.kubernetes_events
---

# loki.source.kubernetes_events

`loki.source.kubernetes_events` tails events from the Kubernetes API and
converts them into log lines to forward to other `loki` components.

Multiple `loki.source.kubernetes_events` components can be specified by giving them
different labels.

## Usage

```river
loki.source.kubernetes_events "LABEL" {
  forward_to = RECEIVER_LIST
}
```

## Arguments

The component starts a new reader for each of the given `targets` and fans out
log entries to the list of receivers passed in `forward_to`.

`loki.source.kubernetes_events` supports the following arguments:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`job_name` | `string` | Value to use for `job` label for generated logs. | `"loki.source.kubernetes_events"` | no
`log_format` | `string` | Format of the log. | `"logfmt"` | no
`namespaces` | `list(string)` | Namespaces to watch for Events in. | `[]` | no
`forward_to` | `list(LogsReceiver)` | List of receivers to send log entries to. | | yes

By default, `loki.source.kubernetes_events` will watch for events in all
namespaces. A list of explicit namespaces to watch can be provided in the
`namespaces` argument.

By default, the generated log lines will be in the `logfmt` format. Use the 
`log_format` argument to change it to `json`. These formats are also names of
LogQL parsers, which can be used for processing the logs.

> **NOTE**: When watching all namespaces, Grafana Agent must have permissions
> to watch events at the cluster scope (such as using a ClusterRoleBinding). If
> an explicit list of namespaces is provided, Grafana Agent only needs
> permissions to watch events for those namespaces.

Log lines generated by `loki.source.kubernetes_events` have the following
labels:

* `namespace`: Namespace of the Kubernetes object involved in the event.
* `job`: Value specified by the `job_name` argument.
* `instance`: Value matching the component ID.

If `job_name` argument is the empty string, the component will fail to load. To
remove the job label, forward the output of `loki.source.kubernetes_events` to
[a `loki.relabel` component][loki.relabel].

For compatibility with the `eventhandler` integration from static mode,
`job_name` can be set to `"integrations/kubernetes/eventhandler"`.

[loki.relabel]: {{< relref "./loki.relabel.md" >}}

## Blocks

The following blocks are supported inside the definition of
`loki.source.kubernetes_events`:

Hierarchy | Block | Description | Required
--------- | ----- | ----------- | --------
client | [client][] | Configures Kubernetes client used to tail logs. | no
client > basic_auth | [basic_auth][] | Configure basic_auth for authenticating to the endpoint. | no
client > authorization | [authorization][] | Configure generic authorization to the endpoint. | no
client > oauth2 | [oauth2][] | Configure OAuth2 for authenticating to the endpoint. | no
client > oauth2 > tls_config | [tls_config][] | Configure TLS settings for connecting to the endpoint. | no
client > tls_config | [tls_config][] | Configure TLS settings for connecting to the endpoint. | no

The `>` symbol indicates deeper levels of nesting. For example, `client >
basic_auth` refers to a `basic_auth` block defined
inside a `client` block.

[client]: #client-block
[basic_auth]: #basic_auth-block
[authorization]: #authorization-block
[oauth2]: #oauth2-block
[tls_config]: #tls_config-block

### client block

The `client` block configures the Kubernetes client used to tail logs from
containers. If the `client` block isn't provided, the default in-cluster
configuration with the service account of the running Grafana Agent pod is
used.

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`api_server` | `string` | URL of the Kubernetes API server. | | no
`kubeconfig_file` | `string` | Path of the `kubeconfig` file to use for connecting to Kubernetes. | | no
`bearer_token` | `secret` | Bearer token to authenticate with. | | no
`bearer_token_file` | `string` | File containing a bearer token to authenticate with. | | no
`proxy_url` | `string` | HTTP proxy to proxy requests through. | | no
`follow_redirects` | `bool` | Whether redirects returned by the server should be followed. | `true` | no
`enable_http2` | `bool` | Whether HTTP2 is supported for requests. | `true` | no

 At most one of the following can be provided:
 - [`bearer_token` argument][client].
 - [`bearer_token_file` argument][client].
 - [`basic_auth` block][basic_auth].
 - [`authorization` block][authorization].
 - [`oauth2` block][oauth2].

### basic_auth block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/basic-auth-block.md" source="agent" >}}

### authorization block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/authorization-block.md" source="agent" >}}

### oauth2 block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/oauth2-block.md" source="agent" >}}

### tls_config block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/tls-config-block.md" source="agent" >}}

## Exported fields

`loki.source.kubernetes_events` does not export any fields.

## Component health

`loki.source.kubernetes_events` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid
configuration.

## Debug information

`loki.source.kubernetes_events` exposes the most recently read timestamp for
events in each watched namespace.

## Debug metrics

`loki.source.kubernetes_events` does not expose any component-specific debug metrics.

## Example

This example collects watches events in the `kube-system` namespace and
forwards them to a `loki.write` component so they are written to Loki.

```river
loki.source.kubernetes_events "example" {
  // Only watch for events in the kube-system namespace.
  namespaces = ["kube-system"]

  forward_to = [loki.write.local.receiver]
}

loki.write "local" {
  endpoint {
    url = env("LOKI_URL")
  }
}
```
