---
aliases:
- /docs/grafana-cloud/agent/flow/reference/components/loki.source.kubernetes_events/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/agent/flow/reference/components/loki.source.kubernetes_events/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/integrations/agent/flow/reference/components/loki.source.kubernetes_events/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/send-data/agent/flow/reference/components/loki.source.kubernetes_events/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/loki.source.kubernetes_events/
description: Learn about loki.source.kubernetes_events
title: loki.source.kubernetes_events
---

# loki.source.kubernetes_events

`loki.source.kubernetes_events` tails events from the Kubernetes API and
converts them into log lines to forward to other `loki` components.

Multiple `loki.source.kubernetes_events` components can be specified by giving them
different labels.

## Usage

```river
loki.source.kubernetes_events "LABEL" {
  forward_to = RECEIVER_LIST
}
```

## Arguments

The component starts a new reader for each of the given `targets` and fans out
log entries to the list of receivers passed in `forward_to`.

`loki.source.kubernetes_events` supports the following arguments:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`job_name` | `string` | Value to use for `job` label for generated logs. | `"loki.source.kubernetes_events"` | no
`log_format` | `string` | Format of the log. | `"logfmt"` | no
`namespaces` | `list(string)` | Namespaces to watch for Events in. | `[]` | no
`forward_to` | `list(LogsReceiver)` | List of receivers to send log entries to. | | yes

By default, `loki.source.kubernetes_events` will watch for events in all
namespaces. A list of explicit namespaces to watch can be provided in the
`namespaces` argument.

By default, the generated log lines will be in the `logfmt` format. Use the 
`log_format` argument to change it to `json`. These formats are also names of
LogQL parsers, which can be used for processing the logs.

> **NOTE**: When watching all namespaces, {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} must have permissions
> to watch events at the cluster scope (such as using a ClusterRoleBinding). If
> an explicit list of namespaces is provided, {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} only needs
> permissions to watch events for those namespaces.

Log lines generated by `loki.source.kubernetes_events` have the following
labels:

* `namespace`: Namespace of the Kubernetes object involved in the event.
* `job`: Value specified by the `job_name` argument.
* `instance`: Value matching the component ID.

If `job_name` argument is the empty string, the component will fail to load. To
remove the job label, forward the output of `loki.source.kubernetes_events` to
[a `loki.relabel` component][loki.relabel].

For compatibility with the `eventhandler` integration from static mode,
`job_name` can be set to `"integrations/kubernetes/eventhandler"`.

[loki.relabel]: {{< relref "./loki.relabel.md" >}}

## Blocks

The following blocks are supported inside the definition of
`loki.source.kubernetes_events`:

Hierarchy | Block | Description | Required
--------- | ----- | ----------- | --------
client | [client][] | Configures Kubernetes client used to tail logs. | no
client > basic_auth | [basic_auth][] | Configure basic_auth for authenticating to the endpoint. | no
client > authorization | [authorization][] | Configure generic authorization to the endpoint. | no
client > oauth2 | [oauth2][] | Configure OAuth2 for authenticating to the endpoint. | no
client > oauth2 > tls_config | [tls_config][] | Configure TLS settings for connecting to the endpoint. | no
client > tls_config | [tls_config][] | Configure TLS settings for connecting to the endpoint. | no

The `>` symbol indicates deeper levels of nesting. For example, `client >
basic_auth` refers to a `basic_auth` block defined
inside a `client` block.

[client]: #client-block
[basic_auth]: #basic_auth-block
[authorization]: #authorization-block
[oauth2]: #oauth2-block
[tls_config]: #tls_config-block

### client block

The `client` block configures the Kubernetes client used to tail logs from
containers. If the `client` block isn't provided, the default in-cluster
configuration with the service account of the running {{< param "PRODUCT_ROOT_NAME" >}} pod is
used.

The following arguments are supported:

Name                     | Type                | Description                                                   | Default | Required
------------------------ | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- | --------
`api_server`             | `string`            | URL of the Kubernetes API server.                             |         | no
`kubeconfig_file`        | `string`            | Path of the `kubeconfig` file to use for connecting to Kubernetes. |    | no
`bearer_token_file`      | `string`            | File containing a bearer token to authenticate with.          |         | no
`bearer_token`           | `secret`            | Bearer token to authenticate with.                            |         | no
`enable_http2`           | `bool`              | Whether HTTP2 is supported for requests.                      | `true`  | no
`follow_redirects`       | `bool`              | Whether redirects returned by the server should be followed.  | `true`  | no
`proxy_url`              | `string`            | HTTP proxy to send requests through.                          |         | no
`no_proxy`               | `string`            | Comma-separated list of IP addresses, CIDR notations, and domain names to exclude from proxying. | | no
`proxy_from_environment` | `bool`              | Use the proxy URL indicated by environment variables.         | `false` | no
`proxy_connect_header`   | `map(list(secret))` | Specifies headers to send to proxies during CONNECT requests. |         | no

 At most, one of the following can be provided:
 - [`bearer_token` argument][client].
 - [`bearer_token_file` argument][client].
 - [`basic_auth` block][basic_auth].
 - [`authorization` block][authorization].
 - [`oauth2` block][oauth2].

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/http-client-proxy-config-description.md" source="agent" version="<AGENT_VERSION>" >}}

### basic_auth block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/basic-auth-block.md" source="agent" version="<AGENT_VERSION>" >}}

### authorization block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/authorization-block.md" source="agent" version="<AGENT_VERSION>" >}}

### oauth2 block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/oauth2-block.md" source="agent" version="<AGENT_VERSION>" >}}

### tls_config block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/tls-config-block.md" source="agent" version="<AGENT_VERSION>" >}}

## Exported fields

`loki.source.kubernetes_events` does not export any fields.

## Component health

`loki.source.kubernetes_events` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid
configuration.

## Debug information

`loki.source.kubernetes_events` exposes the most recently read timestamp for
events in each watched namespace.

## Debug metrics

`loki.source.kubernetes_events` does not expose any component-specific debug metrics.

## Component behavior

The component uses its data path, a directory named after the domain's
fully qualified name, to store its _positions file_. The positions file is used
to store read offsets, so that if a component or {{< param "PRODUCT_ROOT_NAME" >}} restarts,
`loki.source.kubernetes_events` can pick up tailing from the same spot.

The data path is inside the directory configured by the `--storage.path` [command line argument][cmd-args].

In the Static mode's [eventhandler integration][eventhandler-integration], a `cache_path` argument is used to configure a positions file.
In Flow mode, this argument is no longer necessary.

[cmd-args]: {{< relref "../cli/run.md" >}}
[eventhandler-integration]: {{< relref "../../../static/configuration/integrations/integrations-next/eventhandler-config.md" >}}

## Example

This example collects watches events in the `kube-system` namespace and
forwards them to a `loki.write` component so they are written to Loki.

```river
loki.source.kubernetes_events "example" {
  // Only watch for events in the kube-system namespace.
  namespaces = ["kube-system"]

  forward_to = [loki.write.local.receiver]
}

loki.write "local" {
  endpoint {
    url = env("LOKI_URL")
  }
}
```
<!-- START GENERATED COMPATIBLE COMPONENTS -->

## Compatible components

`loki.source.kubernetes_events` can accept arguments from the following components:

- Components that export [Loki `LogsReceiver`]({{< relref "../compatibility/#loki-logsreceiver-exporters" >}})


{{< admonition type="note" >}}
Connecting some components may not be sensible or components may require further configuration to make the connection work correctly.
Refer to the linked documentation for more details.
{{< /admonition >}}

<!-- END GENERATED COMPATIBLE COMPONENTS -->
