docs/sources/flow/reference/components/module.string.md, before:

---
title: module.string
labels:
  stage: beta
---

# module.string

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/stability/beta.md" source="agent" >}}

`module.string` is a *module loader* component. A module loader is a Grafana Agent Flow
component which retreives a [module][] and runs the components defined inside of it.

[module]: {{< relref "../../concepts/modules.md" >}}

## Usage

```river
module.string "LABEL" {
  content   = CONTENT
  arguments = {
    argument1 = ARGUMENT1,
    argument2 = ARGUMENT2,
    ...
  }
}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`content`   | `secret` or `string` | The contents of the module to load as a secret or string. | | yes
`arguments` | `map(any)`  | The values for the supported arguments in the module contents. | | no

`content` is a string that contains the configuration of the module to load.
`content` is typically loaded by using the exports of another component. For example,

- `local.file.LABEL.content`
- `remote.http.LABEL.content`
- `remote.s3.LABEL.content`

`arguments` allows us to pass parameterized input into a module. The values
passed in `arguments` correspond to [argument blocks][] defined in the module
source.

An `argument` marked non-optional in the module being loaded is required in the
`arguments`. It is also not valid to provide an `argument` not defined in the
module being loaded.

[argument blocks]: {{< relref "../config-blocks/argument.md" >}}

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

Name | Type | Description
---- | ---- | -----------
`exports` | `map(any)` | The exports of the Module loader.

`exports` exposes the `export` config block inside a module. It can be accessed
from the parent config via `module.string.LABEL.exports.EXPORT_LABEL`.

Values in `exports` correspond to [export blocks][] defined in the module
source.

[export blocks]: {{< relref "../config-blocks/export.md" >}}

## Component health

`module.string` is reported as healthy if the most recent load of the module was
successful.

If the module is not loaded successfully, the current health displays as
unhealthy and the health includes the error from loading the module.

## Debug information

`module.string` does not expose any component-specific debug information.

### Debug metrics

`module.string` does not expose any component-specific debug metrics.

## Example

In this example, we pass credentials from a parent config to a module which loads
a `prometheus.remote_write` component. The exports of the
`prometheus.remote_write` component are exposed to parent config, allowing
the parent config to pass metrics to it.

Parent:

```river
local.file "metrics" {
  filename = "/path/to/prometheus_remote_write_module.river"
}

module.string "metrics" {
  content   = local.file.metrics.content
  arguments = {
    username = env("PROMETHEUS_USERNAME"),
    password = env("PROMETHEUS_PASSWORD"),
  }
}

prometheus.exporter.unix { }

prometheus.scrape "local_agent" {
  targets         = prometheus.exporter.unix.targets
  forward_to      = [module.string.metrics.exports.prometheus_remote_write.receiver]
  scrape_interval = "10s"
}
```

Module:

```river
argument "username" { }

argument "password" { }

export "prometheus_remote_write" {
  value = prometheus.remote_write.grafana_cloud
}

prometheus.remote_write "grafana_cloud" {
  endpoint {
    url = "https://prometheus-us-central1.grafana.net/api/prom/push"

    basic_auth {
      username = argument.username.value
      password = argument.password.value
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Add error if the logging or tracing config block exists in a module
Return err if a module component fails to start in module.string.go

Signed-off-by: erikbaranowski <39704712+erikbaranowski@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/sources/flow/reference/components/module.string.md, after:

---
title: module.string
labels:
  stage: beta
---

# module.string

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/stability/beta.md" source="agent" >}}

`module.string` is a *module loader* component. A module loader is a Grafana Agent Flow
component which retreives a [module][] and runs the components defined inside of it.

[module]: {{< relref "../../concepts/modules.md" >}}

## Usage

```river
module.string "LABEL" {
  content   = CONTENT
  arguments = {
    argument1 = ARGUMENT1,
    argument2 = ARGUMENT2,
    ...
  }
}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`content`   | `secret` or `string` | The contents of the module to load as a secret or string. | | yes
`arguments` | `map(any)`  | The values for the supported arguments in the module contents. | | no

`content` is a string that contains the configuration of the module to load.
`content` is typically loaded by using the exports of another component. For example,

- `local.file.LABEL.content`
- `remote.http.LABEL.content`
- `remote.s3.LABEL.content`

`arguments` allows us to pass parameterized input into a module. The values
passed in `arguments` correspond to [argument blocks][] defined in the module
source.

An `argument` marked non-optional in the module being loaded is required in the
`arguments`. It is also not valid to provide an `argument` not defined in the
module being loaded.

[argument blocks]: {{< relref "../config-blocks/argument.md" >}}

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

Name | Type | Description
---- | ---- | -----------
`exports` | `map(any)` | The exports of the Module loader.

`exports` exposes the `export` config block inside a module. It can be accessed
from the parent config via `module.string.LABEL.exports.EXPORT_LABEL`.

Values in `exports` correspond to [export blocks][] defined in the module
source.

[export blocks]: {{< relref "../config-blocks/export.md" >}}

## Component health

`module.string` is reported as unhealthy if given an invalid configuration or if
it fails to start any of the components defined inside of it.

## Debug information

`module.string` does not expose any component-specific debug information.

### Debug metrics

`module.string` does not expose any component-specific debug metrics.

## Example

In this example, we pass credentials from a parent config to a module which loads
a `prometheus.remote_write` component. The exports of the
`prometheus.remote_write` component are exposed to parent config, allowing
the parent config to pass metrics to it.

Parent:

```river
local.file "metrics" {
  filename = "/path/to/prometheus_remote_write_module.river"
}

module.string "metrics" {
  content   = local.file.metrics.content
  arguments = {
    username = env("PROMETHEUS_USERNAME"),
    password = env("PROMETHEUS_PASSWORD"),
  }
}

prometheus.exporter.unix { }

prometheus.scrape "local_agent" {
  targets         = prometheus.exporter.unix.targets
  forward_to      = [module.string.metrics.exports.prometheus_remote_write.receiver]
  scrape_interval = "10s"
}
```

Module:

```river
argument "username" { }

argument "password" { }

export "prometheus_remote_write" {
  value = prometheus.remote_write.grafana_cloud
}

prometheus.remote_write "grafana_cloud" {
  endpoint {
    url = "https://prometheus-us-central1.grafana.net/api/prom/push"

    basic_auth {
      username = argument.username.value
      password = argument.password.value
    }
  }
}
```
