docs/sources/flow/reference/components/prometheus.exporter.mysql.md, before:

---
# NOTE(rfratto): the title below has zero-width spaces injected into it to
# prevent it from overflowing the sidebar on the rendered site. Be careful when
# modifying this section to retain the spaces.
#
# Ideally, in the future, we can fix the overflow issue with css rather than
# injecting special characters.

title: prometheus.exporter.​mysql
---

# prometheus.exporter.mysql
The `prometheus.exporter.mysql` component embeds
[mysqld_exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/mysqld_exporter) for collecting stats from a MySQL server.

## Usage

```river
prometheus.exporter.mysql "LABEL" {
    data_source_name = "DATA_SOURCE_NAME"
}
```


## Arguments
The following arguments can be used to configure the exporter's behavior.
All arguments are optional. Omitted fields take their default values.

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`data_source_name`                                | `secret`       | [Data Source Name](https://github.com/go-sql-driver/mysql#dsn-data-source-name) for the MySQL server to connect to. | | yes
`enable_collectors`                               | `list(string)` | A list of [collectors][] to enable on top of the default set.  | | no
`disable_collectors`                              | `list(string)` | A list of [collectors][] to disable from the default set. | | no
`set_collectors`                                  | `list(string)` | A list of [collectors][] to run. Fully overrides the default set. | | no
`lock_wait_timeout`                               | `int`          | Timeout, in seconds, to acquire a metadata lock. | `2`| no
`log_slow_filter`                                 | `bool`         | Used to avoid queries from scrapes being logged in the slow query log. | `false` | no


Set a `lock_wait_timeout` on the connection to avoid potentially long wait times for metadata locks. View more detailed documentation on `lock_wait_timeout` [in the MySQL documentation](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/server-system-variables.html#sysvar_lock_wait_timeout).

> **NOTE**: `log_slow_filter` is not supported by Oracle MySQL.


[collectors]: #supported-collectors

## Blocks

The following blocks are supported inside the definition of
`prometheus.exporter.mysql` to configure collector-specific options:

Hierarchy | Name | Description | Required
--------- | ---- | ----------- | --------
info_schema.processlist      | [info_schema.processlist][] | Configures the `info_schema.processlist` collector. | no
info_schema.tables           | [info_schema.tables][] | Configures the `info_schema.tables` collector. | no
perf_schema.eventsstatements | [perf_schema.eventsstatements][] | Configures the `perf_schema.eventsstatements` collector. | no
perf_schema.file_instances   | [perf_schema.file_instances][] | Configures the `perf_schema.file_instances` collector. | no
heartbeat                    | [heartbeat][] | Configures the `heartbeat` collector. | no
mysql.user                   | [mysql.user][] | Configures the `mysql.user` collector. | no

[info_schema.processlist]: #info_schemaprocesslist-block
[info_schema.tables]: #info_schematables-block
[perf_schema.eventsstatements]: #perf_schemaeventsstatements-block
[perf_schema.file_instances]: #perf_schemafile_instances-block
[heartbeat]: #heartbeat-block
[mysql.user]: #mysqluser-block


### info_schema.processlist block
Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`min_time`                      | `int`          | Minimum time a thread must be in each state to be counted. | `0` | no
`processes_by_user`             | `bool`         | Enable collecting the number of processes by user. | `true` | no
`processes_by_host`             | `bool`         | Enable collecting the number of processes by host. | `true` | no


### info_schema.tables block
Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`info_schema_tables_databases`  | `string`       | Regular expression to match databases to collect table stats for. | `"*"` | no

### perf_schema.eventsstatements block
Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`limit`                         | `int`          | Limit the number of events statements digests, in descending order by `last_seen`. | `250` | no
`time_limit`                    | `int`          | Limit how old, in seconds, the `last_seen` events statements can be. | `86400` | no
`text_limit`                    | `int`          | Maximum length of the normalized statement text. | `120` | no

### perf_schema.file_instances block
Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`filter`                        | `string`       | Regular expression to select rows in `performance_schema.file_summary_by_instance`. | `".*"` | no
`remove_prefix`                 | `string`       | Prefix to trim away from `file_name`.  | `"/var/lib/mysql"` | no

View more detailed documentation on the tables used in `perf_schema_file_instances_filter` and `perf_schema_file_instances_remove_prefix` [in the MySQL documentation](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-perfschema-excerpt/8.0/en/performance-schema-file-summary-tables.html).

### heartbeat block
Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`database`                      | `string`       | Database to collect heartbeat data from. | `"heartbeat"` | no
`table`                         | `string`       | Table to collect heartbeat data from. | `"heartbeat"` | no
`utc`                           | `bool`         | Use UTC for timestamps of the current server (`pt-heartbeat` is called with `--utc`). | `false` | no

### mysql.user block
Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`privileges`                    | `bool`         | Enable collecting user privileges from `mysql.user`. | `false` | no

### Supported Collectors
The full list of supported collectors is:

| Name                                             | Description | Enabled by default |
| ------------------------------------------------ | ----------- | ------------------ |
| auto_increment.columns                           | Collect `auto_increment` columns and max values from `information_schema`. | no |
| binlog_size                                      | Collect the current size of all registered `binlog` files. | no |
| engine_innodb_status                             | Collect metrics from `SHOW ENGINE INNODB STATUS`. | no |
| engine_tokudb_status                             | Collect metrics from `SHOW ENGINE TOKUDB STATUS`. | no |
| global_status                                    | Collect metrics from `SHOW GLOBAL STATUS`. | yes |
| global_variables                                 | Collect metrics from `SHOW GLOBAL VARIABLES`. | yes |
| heartbeat                                        | Collect metrics from heartbeat database and tables. | no |
| info_schema.clientstats                          | If running with userstat=1, enable to collect client statistics. | no |
| info_schema.innodb_cmpmem                        | Collect metrics from `information_schema.innodb_cmpmem`. | yes |
| info_schema.innodb_metrics                       | Collect metrics from `information_schema.innodb_metrics`. | yes |
| info_schema.innodb_tablespaces                   | Collect metrics from `information_schema.innodb_sys_tablespaces`. | no |
| info_schema.processlist                          | Collect current thread state counts from the `information_schema.processlist`. | no |
| info_schema.query_response_time                  | Collect query response time distribution if `query_response_time_stats` is ON. | yes |
| info_schema.replica_host                         | Collect metrics from `information_schema.replica_host_status`. | no |
| info_schema.schemastats                          | If running with userstat=1, enable to collect schema statistics. | no |
| info_schema.tables                               | Collect metrics from `information_schema.tables`. | no |
| info_schema.tablestats                           | If running with userstat=1, enable to collect table statistics. | no |
| info_schema.userstats                            | If running with userstat=1, enable to collect user statistics. | no |
| mysql.user                                       | Collect data from `mysql.user`. | no |
| perf_schema.eventsstatements                     | Collect metrics from `performance_schema.events_statements_summary_by_digest`. | no |
| perf_schema.eventsstatementssum                  | Collect metrics of grand sums from `performance_schema.events_statements_summary_by_digest`. | no |
| perf_schema.eventswaits                          | Collect metrics from `performance_schema.events_waits_summary_global_by_event_name`. | no |
| perf_schema.file_events                          | Collect metrics from `performance_schema.file_summary_by_event_name`. | no |
| perf_schema.file_instances                       | Collect metrics from `performance_schema.file_summary_by_instance`. | no |
| perf_schema.indexiowaits                         | Collect metrics from `performance_schema.table_io_waits_summary_by_index_usage`. | no |
| perf_schema.replication_applier_status_by_worker | Collect metrics from `performance_schema.replication_applier_status_by_worker`. | no |
| perf_schema.replication_group_member_stats       | Collect metrics from `performance_schema.replication_group_member_stats`. | no |
| perf_schema.replication_group_members            | Collect metrics from `performance_schema.replication_group_members`. | no |
| perf_schema.tableiowaits                         | Collect metrics from `performance_schema.table_io_waits_summary_by_table`. | no |
| perf_schema.tablelocks                           | Collect metrics from `performance_schema.table_lock_waits_summary_by_table`. | no |
| slave_hosts                                      | Scrape information from `SHOW SLAVE HOSTS`. | no |
| slave_status                                     | Scrape information from `SHOW SLAVE STATUS`. | yes |

## Exported fields
The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components.

Name      | Type                | Description
--------- | ------------------- | -----------
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | Targets that expose `mysql_exporter` metrics.

For example, the `targets` can either be passed to a `prometheus.relabel`
component to rewrite the metric's label set, or to a `prometheus.scrape`
component that collects the exposed metrics.

## Component health

`prometheus.exporter.mysql` is only reported as unhealthy if given
an invalid configuration. In those cases, exported fields retain their last
healthy values.

## Debug information

`prometheus.exporter.mysql` does not expose any component-specific
debug information.

## Debug metrics

`prometheus.exporter.mysql` does not expose any component-specific
debug metrics.

## Example

This example uses a [`prometheus.scrape` component][scrape] to collect metrics
from `prometheus.exporter.mysql`:

```river
prometheus.exporter.mysql "example" {
  data_source_name = "root@(server-a:3306)/"
  enable_collectors = ["heartbeat", "mysql.user"]
}

// Configure a prometheus.scrape component to collect mysql metrics.
prometheus.scrape "demo" {
  targets    = prometheus.exporter.mysql.example.targets
  forward_to = [ /* ... */ ]
}
```

[scrape]: {{< relref "./prometheus.scrape.md" >}}

Commit message:

docs: document in-memory traffic in Flow

docs/sources/flow/reference/components/prometheus.exporter.mysql.md, after:

---
# NOTE(rfratto): the title below has zero-width spaces injected into it to
# prevent it from overflowing the sidebar on the rendered site. Be careful when
# modifying this section to retain the spaces.
#
# Ideally, in the future, we can fix the overflow issue with css rather than
# injecting special characters.

title: prometheus.exporter.​mysql
---

# prometheus.exporter.mysql
The `prometheus.exporter.mysql` component embeds
[mysqld_exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/mysqld_exporter) for collecting stats from a MySQL server.

## Usage

```river
prometheus.exporter.mysql "LABEL" {
    data_source_name = "DATA_SOURCE_NAME"
}
```


## Arguments
The following arguments can be used to configure the exporter's behavior.
All arguments are optional. Omitted fields take their default values.

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`data_source_name`                                | `secret`       | [Data Source Name](https://github.com/go-sql-driver/mysql#dsn-data-source-name) for the MySQL server to connect to. | | yes
`enable_collectors`                               | `list(string)` | A list of [collectors][] to enable on top of the default set.  | | no
`disable_collectors`                              | `list(string)` | A list of [collectors][] to disable from the default set. | | no
`set_collectors`                                  | `list(string)` | A list of [collectors][] to run. Fully overrides the default set. | | no
`lock_wait_timeout`                               | `int`          | Timeout, in seconds, to acquire a metadata lock. | `2`| no
`log_slow_filter`                                 | `bool`         | Used to avoid queries from scrapes being logged in the slow query log. | `false` | no


Set a `lock_wait_timeout` on the connection to avoid potentially long wait times for metadata locks. View more detailed documentation on `lock_wait_timeout` [in the MySQL documentation](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/server-system-variables.html#sysvar_lock_wait_timeout).

> **NOTE**: `log_slow_filter` is not supported by Oracle MySQL.


[collectors]: #supported-collectors

## Blocks

The following blocks are supported inside the definition of
`prometheus.exporter.mysql` to configure collector-specific options:

Hierarchy | Name | Description | Required
--------- | ---- | ----------- | --------
info_schema.processlist      | [info_schema.processlist][] | Configures the `info_schema.processlist` collector. | no
info_schema.tables           | [info_schema.tables][] | Configures the `info_schema.tables` collector. | no
perf_schema.eventsstatements | [perf_schema.eventsstatements][] | Configures the `perf_schema.eventsstatements` collector. | no
perf_schema.file_instances   | [perf_schema.file_instances][] | Configures the `perf_schema.file_instances` collector. | no
heartbeat                    | [heartbeat][] | Configures the `heartbeat` collector. | no
mysql.user                   | [mysql.user][] | Configures the `mysql.user` collector. | no

[info_schema.processlist]: #info_schemaprocesslist-block
[info_schema.tables]: #info_schematables-block
[perf_schema.eventsstatements]: #perf_schemaeventsstatements-block
[perf_schema.file_instances]: #perf_schemafile_instances-block
[heartbeat]: #heartbeat-block
[mysql.user]: #mysqluser-block


### info_schema.processlist block
Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`min_time`                      | `int`          | Minimum time a thread must be in each state to be counted. | `0` | no
`processes_by_user`             | `bool`         | Enable collecting the number of processes by user. | `true` | no
`processes_by_host`             | `bool`         | Enable collecting the number of processes by host. | `true` | no


### info_schema.tables block
Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`info_schema_tables_databases`  | `string`       | Regular expression to match databases to collect table stats for. | `"*"` | no

### perf_schema.eventsstatements block
Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`limit`                         | `int`          | Limit the number of events statements digests, in descending order by `last_seen`. | `250` | no
`time_limit`                    | `int`          | Limit how old, in seconds, the `last_seen` events statements can be. | `86400` | no
`text_limit`                    | `int`          | Maximum length of the normalized statement text. | `120` | no

### perf_schema.file_instances block
Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`filter`                        | `string`       | Regular expression to select rows in `performance_schema.file_summary_by_instance`. | `".*"` | no
`remove_prefix`                 | `string`       | Prefix to trim away from `file_name`.  | `"/var/lib/mysql"` | no

View more detailed documentation on the tables used in `perf_schema_file_instances_filter` and `perf_schema_file_instances_remove_prefix` [in the MySQL documentation](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-perfschema-excerpt/8.0/en/performance-schema-file-summary-tables.html).

### heartbeat block
Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`database`                      | `string`       | Database to collect heartbeat data from. | `"heartbeat"` | no
`table`                         | `string`       | Table to collect heartbeat data from. | `"heartbeat"` | no
`utc`                           | `bool`         | Use UTC for timestamps of the current server (`pt-heartbeat` is called with `--utc`). | `false` | no

### mysql.user block
Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`privileges`                    | `bool`         | Enable collecting user privileges from `mysql.user`. | `false` | no

### Supported Collectors
The full list of supported collectors is:

| Name                                             | Description | Enabled by default |
| ------------------------------------------------ | ----------- | ------------------ |
| auto_increment.columns                           | Collect `auto_increment` columns and max values from `information_schema`. | no |
| binlog_size                                      | Collect the current size of all registered `binlog` files. | no |
| engine_innodb_status                             | Collect metrics from `SHOW ENGINE INNODB STATUS`. | no |
| engine_tokudb_status                             | Collect metrics from `SHOW ENGINE TOKUDB STATUS`. | no |
| global_status                                    | Collect metrics from `SHOW GLOBAL STATUS`. | yes |
| global_variables                                 | Collect metrics from `SHOW GLOBAL VARIABLES`. | yes |
| heartbeat                                        | Collect metrics from heartbeat database and tables. | no |
| info_schema.clientstats                          | If running with userstat=1, enable to collect client statistics. | no |
| info_schema.innodb_cmpmem                        | Collect metrics from `information_schema.innodb_cmpmem`. | yes |
| info_schema.innodb_metrics                       | Collect metrics from `information_schema.innodb_metrics`. | yes |
| info_schema.innodb_tablespaces                   | Collect metrics from `information_schema.innodb_sys_tablespaces`. | no |
| info_schema.processlist                          | Collect current thread state counts from the `information_schema.processlist`. | no |
| info_schema.query_response_time                  | Collect query response time distribution if `query_response_time_stats` is ON. | yes |
| info_schema.replica_host                         | Collect metrics from `information_schema.replica_host_status`. | no |
| info_schema.schemastats                          | If running with userstat=1, enable to collect schema statistics. | no |
| info_schema.tables                               | Collect metrics from `information_schema.tables`. | no |
| info_schema.tablestats                           | If running with userstat=1, enable to collect table statistics. | no |
| info_schema.userstats                            | If running with userstat=1, enable to collect user statistics. | no |
| mysql.user                                       | Collect data from `mysql.user`. | no |
| perf_schema.eventsstatements                     | Collect metrics from `performance_schema.events_statements_summary_by_digest`. | no |
| perf_schema.eventsstatementssum                  | Collect metrics of grand sums from `performance_schema.events_statements_summary_by_digest`. | no |
| perf_schema.eventswaits                          | Collect metrics from `performance_schema.events_waits_summary_global_by_event_name`. | no |
| perf_schema.file_events                          | Collect metrics from `performance_schema.file_summary_by_event_name`. | no |
| perf_schema.file_instances                       | Collect metrics from `performance_schema.file_summary_by_instance`. | no |
| perf_schema.indexiowaits                         | Collect metrics from `performance_schema.table_io_waits_summary_by_index_usage`. | no |
| perf_schema.replication_applier_status_by_worker | Collect metrics from `performance_schema.replication_applier_status_by_worker`. | no |
| perf_schema.replication_group_member_stats       | Collect metrics from `performance_schema.replication_group_member_stats`. | no |
| perf_schema.replication_group_members            | Collect metrics from `performance_schema.replication_group_members`. | no |
| perf_schema.tableiowaits                         | Collect metrics from `performance_schema.table_io_waits_summary_by_table`. | no |
| perf_schema.tablelocks                           | Collect metrics from `performance_schema.table_lock_waits_summary_by_table`. | no |
| slave_hosts                                      | Scrape information from `SHOW SLAVE HOSTS`. | no |
| slave_status                                     | Scrape information from `SHOW SLAVE STATUS`. | yes |

## Exported fields
The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components.

Name      | Type                | Description
--------- | ------------------- | -----------
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | Targets that expose `mysql_exporter` metrics.

For example, the `targets` can either be passed to a `prometheus.relabel`
component to rewrite the metric's label set, or to a `prometheus.scrape`
component that collects the exposed metrics.

The exported targets will use the configured [in-memory traffic][] address
specified by the [run command][].

[in-memory traffic]: {{< relref "../../concepts/component_controller.md#in-memory-traffic" >}}
[run command]: {{< relref "../cli/run.md" >}}

## Component health

`prometheus.exporter.mysql` is only reported as unhealthy if given
an invalid configuration. In those cases, exported fields retain their last
healthy values.

## Debug information

`prometheus.exporter.mysql` does not expose any component-specific
debug information.

## Debug metrics

`prometheus.exporter.mysql` does not expose any component-specific
debug metrics.

## Example

This example uses a [`prometheus.scrape` component][scrape] to collect metrics
from `prometheus.exporter.mysql`:

```river
prometheus.exporter.mysql "example" {
  data_source_name = "root@(server-a:3306)/"
  enable_collectors = ["heartbeat", "mysql.user"]
}

// Configure a prometheus.scrape component to collect mysql metrics.
prometheus.scrape "demo" {
  targets    = prometheus.exporter.mysql.example.targets
  forward_to = [ /* ... */ ]
}
```

[scrape]: {{< relref "./prometheus.scrape.md" >}}
