docs/sources/flow/reference/components/prometheus.exporter.process.md, before:

---
# NOTE(rfratto): the title below has zero-width spaces injected into it to
# prevent it from overflowing the sidebar on the rendered site. Be careful when
# modifying this section to retain the spaces.
#
# Ideally, in the future, we can fix the overflow issue with css rather than
# injecting special characters.

title: prometheus.exporter.​process
---

# prometheus.exporter.process
The `prometheus.exporter.process` component embeds
[process_exporter](https://github.com/ncabatoff/process-exporter) for collecting process stats from `/proc`.

## Usage

```river
prometheus.exporter.process "LABEL" {
}
```

## Arguments
The following arguments can be used to configure the exporter's behavior.
All arguments are optional. Omitted fields take their default values.

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`procfs_path`       | `string`                 | procfs mountpoint. | `/proc` | no
`track_children`    | `bool`                   | Whether to track a process' children. | `true` | no
`track_threads`     | `bool`                   | Report metrics for a process' individual threads.  | `true` | no
`gather_smaps`      | `bool`                   | Gather metrics from the smaps file for a process. | `true` | no
`recheck_on_scrape` | `bool`                   | Recheck process names on each scrape. | `true` | no

## Blocks
The following blocks are supported inside the definition of `prometheus.exporter.process`:

Hierarchy        | Block      | Description | Required
---------------- | ---------- | ----------- | --------
matcher          | [matcher][]  | A collection of matching rules to use for deciding which processes to monitor. | no

[matcher]: #matcher-block

### matcher block
Each `matcher` block config can match multiple processes, which will be tracked as a single process "group."

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`name`       | `string`        | The name to use for identifying the process group name in the metric. | `"{{.ExeBase}}"` | no
`comm`       | `list(string)`  | A list of strings that match the base executable name for a process, truncated to 15 characters.  | | no
`exe`        | `list(string)`  | A list of strings that match `argv[0]` for a process. | | no
`cmdline`    | `list(string)`  | A list of regular expressions applied to the `argv` of the process. | | no

The `name` argument can use the following template variables. By default it uses the base path of the executable: 
- `{{.Comm}}`:      Basename of the original executable from /proc/\<pid\>/stat.
- `{{.ExeBase}}`:   Basename of the executable from argv[0].
- `{{.ExeFull}}`:   Fully qualified path of the executable.
- `{{.Username}}`:  Username of the effective user.
- `{{.Matches}}`:   Map containing all regex capture groups resulting from matching a process with the cmdline rule group.
- `{{.PID}}`:       PID of the process. Note that the PID is copied from the first executable found.
- `{{.StartTime}}`: The start time of the process. This is useful when combined with PID as PIDS get reused over time.
- `{{.Cgroups}}`: The cgroups, if supported, of the process (`/proc/self/cgroup`). This is particularly useful for identifying to which container a process belongs.

**NOTE**: Using `PID` or `StartTime` is discouraged, as it is almost never what you want, and is likely to result in high cardinality metrics.

The value that is used for matching `comm` list elements is derived from reading the second field of `/proc/<pid>/stat`, stripped of parens.

For values in `exe`, if there are no slashes, only the basename of `argv[0]` needs to match. Otherwise, the name must be an exact match. For example, "postgres" may match any postgres binary, but `/usr/local/bin/postgres` will only match a postgres process with that exact path. If any of the strings match, the process will be tracked.

Each regex in `cmdline` must match the corresponding argv for the process to be tracked. The first element that is matched is `argv[1]`. Regex captures are added to the .Matches map for use in the name.

## Exported fields
The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components.

Name      | Type                | Description
--------- | ------------------- | -----------
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | Targets that expose `process_exporter` metrics.

For example, the `targets` can either be passed to a `prometheus.relabel`
component to rewrite the metric's label set, or to a `prometheus.scrape`
component that collects the exposed metrics.

## Component health

`prometheus.exporter.process` is only reported as unhealthy if given
an invalid configuration. In those cases, exported fields retain their last
healthy values.

## Debug information

`prometheus.exporter.process` does not expose any component-specific
debug information.

## Debug metrics

`prometheus.exporter.process` does not expose any component-specific
debug metrics.

## Example

This example uses a [`prometheus.scrape` component][scrape] to collect metrics
from `prometheus.exporter.process`:

```river
prometheus.exporter.process "example" {
  track_children = false
  matcher {
    comm = ["grafana-agent"]
  }
}

// Configure a prometheus.scrape component to collect process_exporter metrics.
prometheus.scrape "demo" {
  targets    = prometheus.exporter.process.example.targets
  forward_to = [ /* ... */ ]
}
```

[scrape]: {{< relref "./prometheus.scrape.md" >}}

Commit message:

Support in-memory HTTP connections for scraping (#3602)
* flow: support in-memory HTTP traffic

This adds an in-memory HTTP traffic listener so components which
communicate to other components through HTTP (e.g., for scraping
Prometheus metrics endpoints) do not need to use the network.

This is required to allow prometheus.scrape to continue to collect
metrics from prometheus.exporter.* components if the HTTP server is
protected by mTLS; otherwise, prometheus.scrape will not work until
configured with support for mTLS.

Closes #2984.

* prometheus.scrape: use custom dialer for opening conns to targets

This updates prometheus.scrape to use the custom dialer passed to it for
opening connections to targets.

This allows prometheus.scrape to properly scrape metrics from the
in-memory HTTP listener.

* docs: document in-memory traffic in Flow

* misc: add CHANGELOG entry for in-memory HTTP traffic

Co-authored-by: Paschalis Tsilias <tpaschalis@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/sources/flow/reference/components/prometheus.exporter.process.md, after:

---
# NOTE(rfratto): the title below has zero-width spaces injected into it to
# prevent it from overflowing the sidebar on the rendered site. Be careful when
# modifying this section to retain the spaces.
#
# Ideally, in the future, we can fix the overflow issue with css rather than
# injecting special characters.

title: prometheus.exporter.​process
---

# prometheus.exporter.process
The `prometheus.exporter.process` component embeds
[process_exporter](https://github.com/ncabatoff/process-exporter) for collecting process stats from `/proc`.

## Usage

```river
prometheus.exporter.process "LABEL" {
}
```

## Arguments
The following arguments can be used to configure the exporter's behavior.
All arguments are optional. Omitted fields take their default values.

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`procfs_path`       | `string`                 | procfs mountpoint. | `/proc` | no
`track_children`    | `bool`                   | Whether to track a process' children. | `true` | no
`track_threads`     | `bool`                   | Report metrics for a process' individual threads.  | `true` | no
`gather_smaps`      | `bool`                   | Gather metrics from the smaps file for a process. | `true` | no
`recheck_on_scrape` | `bool`                   | Recheck process names on each scrape. | `true` | no

## Blocks
The following blocks are supported inside the definition of `prometheus.exporter.process`:

Hierarchy        | Block      | Description | Required
---------------- | ---------- | ----------- | --------
matcher          | [matcher][]  | A collection of matching rules to use for deciding which processes to monitor. | no

[matcher]: #matcher-block

### matcher block
Each `matcher` block config can match multiple processes, which will be tracked as a single process "group."

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`name`       | `string`        | The name to use for identifying the process group name in the metric. | `"{{.ExeBase}}"` | no
`comm`       | `list(string)`  | A list of strings that match the base executable name for a process, truncated to 15 characters.  | | no
`exe`        | `list(string)`  | A list of strings that match `argv[0]` for a process. | | no
`cmdline`    | `list(string)`  | A list of regular expressions applied to the `argv` of the process. | | no

The `name` argument can use the following template variables. By default it uses the base path of the executable:
- `{{.Comm}}`:      Basename of the original executable from /proc/\<pid\>/stat.
- `{{.ExeBase}}`:   Basename of the executable from argv[0].
- `{{.ExeFull}}`:   Fully qualified path of the executable.
- `{{.Username}}`:  Username of the effective user.
- `{{.Matches}}`:   Map containing all regex capture groups resulting from matching a process with the cmdline rule group.
- `{{.PID}}`:       PID of the process. Note that the PID is copied from the first executable found.
- `{{.StartTime}}`: The start time of the process. This is useful when combined with PID as PIDS get reused over time.
- `{{.Cgroups}}`: The cgroups, if supported, of the process (`/proc/self/cgroup`). This is particularly useful for identifying to which container a process belongs.

**NOTE**: Using `PID` or `StartTime` is discouraged, as it is almost never what you want, and is likely to result in high cardinality metrics.

The value that is used for matching `comm` list elements is derived from reading the second field of `/proc/<pid>/stat`, stripped of parens.

For values in `exe`, if there are no slashes, only the basename of `argv[0]` needs to match. Otherwise, the name must be an exact match. For example, "postgres" may match any postgres binary, but `/usr/local/bin/postgres` will only match a postgres process with that exact path. If any of the strings match, the process will be tracked.

Each regex in `cmdline` must match the corresponding argv for the process to be tracked. The first element that is matched is `argv[1]`. Regex captures are added to the .Matches map for use in the name.

## Exported fields
The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components.

Name      | Type                | Description
--------- | ------------------- | -----------
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | Targets that expose `process_exporter` metrics.

For example, the `targets` can either be passed to a `prometheus.relabel`
component to rewrite the metric's label set, or to a `prometheus.scrape`
component that collects the exposed metrics.

The exported targets will use the configured [in-memory traffic][] address
specified by the [run command][].

[in-memory traffic]: {{< relref "../../concepts/component_controller.md#in-memory-traffic" >}}
[run command]: {{< relref "../cli/run.md" >}}

## Component health

`prometheus.exporter.process` is only reported as unhealthy if given
an invalid configuration. In those cases, exported fields retain their last
healthy values.

## Debug information

`prometheus.exporter.process` does not expose any component-specific
debug information.

## Debug metrics

`prometheus.exporter.process` does not expose any component-specific
debug metrics.

## Example

This example uses a [`prometheus.scrape` component][scrape] to collect metrics
from `prometheus.exporter.process`:

```river
prometheus.exporter.process "example" {
  track_children = false
  matcher {
    comm = ["grafana-agent"]
  }
}

// Configure a prometheus.scrape component to collect process_exporter metrics.
prometheus.scrape "demo" {
  targets    = prometheus.exporter.process.example.targets
  forward_to = [ /* ... */ ]
}
```

[scrape]: {{< relref "./prometheus.scrape.md" >}}
