docs/sources/flow/reference/components/prometheus.exporter.windows.md, before:

---
# NOTE(rfratto): the title below has zero-width spaces injected into it to
# prevent it from overflowing the sidebar on the rendered site. Be careful when
# modifying this section to retain the spaces.
#
# Ideally, in the future, we can fix the overflow issue with css rather than
# injecting special characters.

title: prometheus.exporter.windows
---

# prometheus.exporter.windows
The `prometheus.exporter.windows` component embeds
[windows_exporter](https://github.com/prometheus-community/windows_exporter) which exposes a
wide variety of hardware and OS metrics for Windows-based systems.

The `windows_exporter` itself comprises various _collectors_, which can be
enabled and disabled at will. For more information on collectors, refer to the
[`collectors-list`](#collectors-list) section.

## Usage

```river
prometheus.exporter.windows "LABEL" { 
}
```

## Arguments
The following arguments can be used to configure the exporter's behavior.
All arguments are optional. Omitted fields take their default values.

| Name                       | Type           | Description                                                   | Default | Required |
|----------------------------|----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|---------|----------|
| `enabled_collectors`       | string`        | List of collectors to enable.                                |         | no       |

`enabled_collectors` defines a hand-picked list of enabled-by-default
collectors. If set, anything not provided in that list is disabled by
default. See the [Collectors list](#collectors-list) for the default set.

## Blocks

The following blocks are supported inside the definition of
`prometheus.exporter.windows` to configure collector-specific options:

Hierarchy    | Name             | Description                            | Required 
-------------|------------------|----------------------------------------|----------
exchange     | [exchange][]     | Configures the exchange collector.     | no       
iis          | [iis][]          | Configures the iis collector.          | no       
text_file    | [text_file][]    | Configures the text_file collector.    | no       
smtp         | [smtp][]         | Configures the smtp collector.         | no       
service      | [service][]      | Configures the service collector.      | no       
process      | [process][]      | Configures the process collector.      | no       
network      | [network][]      | Configures the network collector.      | no       
mssql        | [mssql][]        | Configures the mssql collector.        | no       
msmq         | [msmq][]         | Configures the msmq collector.         | no       
logical_disk | [logical_disk][] | Configures the logical_disk collector. | no       

[exchange]: #exchange-block
[iis]: #iis-block
[text_file]: #textfile-block
[smtp]: #smtp-block
[service]: #service-block
[process]: #process-block
[network]: #network-block
[mssql]: #mssql-block
[msmq]: #msmq-block
[logical_disk]: #logicaldisk-block

### exchange block
Name | Type     | Description | Default | Required
---- |----------| ----------- | ------- | --------
`enabled_list` | `list(string)` | Comma-separated list of collectors to use. | `["cpu", "cs", "logical_disk", "net", "os", "service", "system"]` | no

The collectors specified by `enabled_list` can include the following:

- `ADAccessProcesses`
- `TransportQueues`
- `HttpProxy`
- `ActiveSync`
- `AvailabilityService`
- `OutlookWebAccess`
- `Autodiscover`
- `WorkloadManagement`
- `RpcClientAccess` 

For example, `enabled_list` may be set to `"AvailabilityService,OutlookWebAccess"`. 


### iis block
Name | Type     | Description | Default | Required
---- |----------| ----------- | ------- | --------
`app_blacklist` | `string` | Regular expression of applications to ignore. |  | no
`app_whitelist` | `string` | Regular expression of applications to report on. |  | no
`site_blacklist` | `string` | Regular expression of sites to ignore. |  | no
`site_whitelist` | `string` | Regular expression of sites to report on. |  | no

### text_file block
Name | Type     | Description | Default | Required
---- |----------| ----------- | ------- | --------
`text_file_directory` | `string` | The directory containing the files to be ingested. | `C:\Program Files\windows_exporter\textfile_inputs` | no

When `text_file_directory` is set, only files with the extension `.prom` inside the specified directory are read. Each `.prom` file found must end with an empty line feed to work properly.  


### smtp block
Name | Type     | Description | Default | Required
---- |----------| ----------- | ------- | --------
`blacklist` | `string` | Regexp of virtual servers to ignore. |  | no
`whitelist` | `string` | Regexp of virtual servers to include. | `".+"` | no

For a server name to be included, it must match the regular expression specified by `whitelist` and must _not_ match the regular expression specified by `blacklist`. 

### service block
Name | Type     | Description | Default | Required
---- |----------| ----------- | ------- | --------
`where_clause` | `string` | WQL 'where' clause to use in WMI metrics query. |  | no

The `where_clause` argument can be used to limit the response to the services you specify, reducing the size of the response.


### process block
Name | Type     | Description | Default | Required
---- |----------| ----------- | ------- | --------
`blacklist` | `string` | Regular expression of processes to exclude. |  | no
`whitelist` | `string` | Regular expression of processes to include. | `".*"` | no

Processes must match the regular expression specified by `whitelist` and must _not_ match the regular expression specified by `blacklist` to be included.

### network block
Name | Type     | Description | Default | Required
---- |----------| ----------- | ------- | --------
`blacklist` | `string` | Regular expression of NIC:s to exclude. |  | no
`whitelist` | `string` | Regular expression of NIC:s to include. | `".*"` | no

NIC names must match the regular expression specified by `whitelist` and must _not_ match the regular expression specified by `blacklist` to be included.

### mssql block
Name | Type     | Description | Default | Required
---- |----------| ----------- | ------- | --------
`enabled_classes` | `list(string)` | Comma-separated list of MSSQL WMI classes to use. | `["accessmethods", "availreplica", "bufman", "databases", "dbreplica", "genstats", "locks", "memmgr", "sqlstats", "sqlerrorstransactions"]` | no

### msmq block
Name | Type     | Description | Default | Required
---- |----------| ----------- | ------- | --------
`where_clause` | `string` | WQL 'where' clause to use in WMI metrics query. |  | no

Specifying `enabled_classes` is useful to limit the response to the MSMQs you specify, reducing the size of the response. 


### logical_disk block
Name | Type     | Description | Default | Required
---- |----------| ----------- | ------- | --------
`blacklist` | `string` | Regular expression of volumes to exclude. |  | no
`whitelist` | `string` | Regular expression of volumes to include. | `".+"` | no

Volume names must match the regular expression specified by `whitelist` and must _not_ match the regular expression specified by `blacklist` to be included.

## Exported fields
The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

Name      | Type                | Description
--------- | ------------------- | -----------
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | The targets that can be used to collect `windows` metrics.

For example, the `targets` could either be passed to a `prometheus.relabel`
component to rewrite the metrics' label set, or to a `prometheus.scrape`
component that collects the exposed metrics.

## Component health

`prometheus.exporter.windows` is only reported as unhealthy if given
an invalid configuration. In those cases, exported fields retain their last
healthy values.

## Debug information

`prometheus.exporter.windows` does not expose any component-specific
debug information.

## Debug metrics

`prometheus.exporter.windows` does not expose any component-specific
debug metrics.

## Collectors list
The following table lists the available collectors that `windows_exporter` brings
bundled in. Some collectors only work on specific operating systems; enabling a
collector that is not supported by the host OS where Flow is running
is a no-op.

Users can choose to enable a subset of collectors to limit the amount of
metrics exposed by the `prometheus.exporter.windows` component,
or disable collectors that are expensive to run.


Name     | Description | Enabled by default
---------|-------------|--------------------
[ad](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.ad.md) | Active Directory Domain Services |
[adfs](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.adfs.md) | Active Directory Federation Services |
[cache](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.cache.md) | Cache metrics |
[cpu](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.cpu.md) | CPU usage | &#10003;
[cpu_info](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.cpu_info.md) | CPU Information |
[cs](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.cs.md) | "Computer System" metrics (system properties, num cpus/total memory) | &#10003;
[container](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.container.md) | Container metrics |
[dfsr](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.dfsr.md) | DFSR metrics |
[dhcp](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.dhcp.md) | DHCP Server |
[dns](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.dns.md) | DNS Server |
[exchange](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.exchange.md) | Exchange metrics |
[fsrmquota](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.fsrmquota.md) | Microsoft File Server Resource Manager (FSRM) Quotas collector |
[hyperv](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.hyperv.md) | Hyper-V hosts |
[iis](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.iis.md) | IIS sites and applications |
[logical_disk](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.logical_disk.md) | Logical disks, disk I/O | &#10003;
[logon](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.logon.md) | User logon sessions |
[memory](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.memory.md) | Memory usage metrics |
[msmq](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.msmq.md) | MSMQ queues |
[mssql](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.mssql.md) | [SQL Server Performance Objects](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/performance-monitor/use-sql-server-objects#SQLServerPOs) metrics  |
[netframework_clrexceptions](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.netframework_clrexceptions.md) | .NET Framework CLR Exceptions |
[netframework_clrinterop](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.netframework_clrinterop.md) | .NET Framework Interop Metrics |
[netframework_clrjit](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.netframework_clrjit.md) | .NET Framework JIT metrics |
[netframework_clrloading](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.netframework_clrloading.md) | .NET Framework CLR Loading metrics |
[netframework_clrlocksandthreads](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.netframework_clrlocksandthreads.md) | .NET Framework locks and metrics threads |
[netframework_clrmemory](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.netframework_clrmemory.md) |  .NET Framework Memory metrics |
[netframework_clrremoting](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.netframework_clrremoting.md) | .NET Framework Remoting metrics |
[netframework_clrsecurity](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.netframework_clrsecurity.md) | .NET Framework Security Check metrics |
[net](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.net.md) | Network interface I/O | &#10003;
[os](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.os.md) | OS metrics (memory, processes, users) | &#10003;
[process](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.process.md) | Per-process metrics |
[remote_fx](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.remote_fx.md) | RemoteFX protocol (RDP) metrics |
[service](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.service.md) | Service state metrics | &#10003;
[smtp](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.smtp.md) | IIS SMTP Server |
[system](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.system.md) | System calls | &#10003;
[tcp](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.tcp.md) | TCP connections |
[time](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.time.md) | Windows Time Service |
[thermalzone](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.thermalzone.md) | Thermal information
[terminal_services](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.terminal_services.md) | Terminal services (RDS)
[textfile](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.textfile.md) | Read prometheus metrics from a text file |
[vmware](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.vmware.md) | Performance counters installed by the Vmware Guest agent |

See the linked documentation on each collector for more information on reported metrics, configuration settings and usage examples.

## Example

This example uses a [`prometheus.scrape` component][scrape] to collect metrics
from `prometheus.exporter.windows`:

```river
prometheus.exporter.windows "default" {
}

// Configure a prometheus.scrape component to collect windows metrics.
prometheus.scrape "example" {
  targets    = prometheus.exporter.windows.this.targets
  forward_to = [ /* ... */ ]
}
```

[scrape]: {{< relref "./prometheus.scrape.md" >}}

Commit message:

Support in-memory HTTP connections for scraping (#3602)
* flow: support in-memory HTTP traffic

This adds an in-memory HTTP traffic listener so components which
communicate to other components through HTTP (e.g., for scraping
Prometheus metrics endpoints) do not need to use the network.

This is required to allow prometheus.scrape to continue to collect
metrics from prometheus.exporter.* components if the HTTP server is
protected by mTLS; otherwise, prometheus.scrape will not work until
configured with support for mTLS.

Closes #2984.

* prometheus.scrape: use custom dialer for opening conns to targets

This updates prometheus.scrape to use the custom dialer passed to it for
opening connections to targets.

This allows prometheus.scrape to properly scrape metrics from the
in-memory HTTP listener.

* docs: document in-memory traffic in Flow

* misc: add CHANGELOG entry for in-memory HTTP traffic

Co-authored-by: Paschalis Tsilias <tpaschalis@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/sources/flow/reference/components/prometheus.exporter.windows.md, after:

---
# NOTE(rfratto): the title below has zero-width spaces injected into it to
# prevent it from overflowing the sidebar on the rendered site. Be careful when
# modifying this section to retain the spaces.
#
# Ideally, in the future, we can fix the overflow issue with css rather than
# injecting special characters.

title: prometheus.exporter.windows
---

# prometheus.exporter.windows
The `prometheus.exporter.windows` component embeds
[windows_exporter](https://github.com/prometheus-community/windows_exporter) which exposes a
wide variety of hardware and OS metrics for Windows-based systems.

The `windows_exporter` itself comprises various _collectors_, which can be
enabled and disabled at will. For more information on collectors, refer to the
[`collectors-list`](#collectors-list) section.

## Usage

```river
prometheus.exporter.windows "LABEL" {
}
```

## Arguments
The following arguments can be used to configure the exporter's behavior.
All arguments are optional. Omitted fields take their default values.

| Name                       | Type           | Description                                                   | Default | Required |
|----------------------------|----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|---------|----------|
| `enabled_collectors`       | string`        | List of collectors to enable.                                |         | no       |

`enabled_collectors` defines a hand-picked list of enabled-by-default
collectors. If set, anything not provided in that list is disabled by
default. See the [Collectors list](#collectors-list) for the default set.

## Blocks

The following blocks are supported inside the definition of
`prometheus.exporter.windows` to configure collector-specific options:

Hierarchy    | Name             | Description                            | Required
-------------|------------------|----------------------------------------|----------
exchange     | [exchange][]     | Configures the exchange collector.     | no
iis          | [iis][]          | Configures the iis collector.          | no
text_file    | [text_file][]    | Configures the text_file collector.    | no
smtp         | [smtp][]         | Configures the smtp collector.         | no
service      | [service][]      | Configures the service collector.      | no
process      | [process][]      | Configures the process collector.      | no
network      | [network][]      | Configures the network collector.      | no
mssql        | [mssql][]        | Configures the mssql collector.        | no
msmq         | [msmq][]         | Configures the msmq collector.         | no
logical_disk | [logical_disk][] | Configures the logical_disk collector. | no

[exchange]: #exchange-block
[iis]: #iis-block
[text_file]: #textfile-block
[smtp]: #smtp-block
[service]: #service-block
[process]: #process-block
[network]: #network-block
[mssql]: #mssql-block
[msmq]: #msmq-block
[logical_disk]: #logicaldisk-block

### exchange block
Name | Type     | Description | Default | Required
---- |----------| ----------- | ------- | --------
`enabled_list` | `list(string)` | Comma-separated list of collectors to use. | `["cpu", "cs", "logical_disk", "net", "os", "service", "system"]` | no

The collectors specified by `enabled_list` can include the following:

- `ADAccessProcesses`
- `TransportQueues`
- `HttpProxy`
- `ActiveSync`
- `AvailabilityService`
- `OutlookWebAccess`
- `Autodiscover`
- `WorkloadManagement`
- `RpcClientAccess`

For example, `enabled_list` may be set to `"AvailabilityService,OutlookWebAccess"`.


### iis block
Name | Type     | Description | Default | Required
---- |----------| ----------- | ------- | --------
`app_blacklist` | `string` | Regular expression of applications to ignore. |  | no
`app_whitelist` | `string` | Regular expression of applications to report on. |  | no
`site_blacklist` | `string` | Regular expression of sites to ignore. |  | no
`site_whitelist` | `string` | Regular expression of sites to report on. |  | no

### text_file block
Name | Type     | Description | Default | Required
---- |----------| ----------- | ------- | --------
`text_file_directory` | `string` | The directory containing the files to be ingested. | `C:\Program Files\windows_exporter\textfile_inputs` | no

When `text_file_directory` is set, only files with the extension `.prom` inside the specified directory are read. Each `.prom` file found must end with an empty line feed to work properly.


### smtp block
Name | Type     | Description | Default | Required
---- |----------| ----------- | ------- | --------
`blacklist` | `string` | Regexp of virtual servers to ignore. |  | no
`whitelist` | `string` | Regexp of virtual servers to include. | `".+"` | no

For a server name to be included, it must match the regular expression specified by `whitelist` and must _not_ match the regular expression specified by `blacklist`.

### service block
Name | Type     | Description | Default | Required
---- |----------| ----------- | ------- | --------
`where_clause` | `string` | WQL 'where' clause to use in WMI metrics query. |  | no

The `where_clause` argument can be used to limit the response to the services you specify, reducing the size of the response.


### process block
Name | Type     | Description | Default | Required
---- |----------| ----------- | ------- | --------
`blacklist` | `string` | Regular expression of processes to exclude. |  | no
`whitelist` | `string` | Regular expression of processes to include. | `".*"` | no

Processes must match the regular expression specified by `whitelist` and must _not_ match the regular expression specified by `blacklist` to be included.

### network block
Name | Type     | Description | Default | Required
---- |----------| ----------- | ------- | --------
`blacklist` | `string` | Regular expression of NIC:s to exclude. |  | no
`whitelist` | `string` | Regular expression of NIC:s to include. | `".*"` | no

NIC names must match the regular expression specified by `whitelist` and must _not_ match the regular expression specified by `blacklist` to be included.

### mssql block
Name | Type     | Description | Default | Required
---- |----------| ----------- | ------- | --------
`enabled_classes` | `list(string)` | Comma-separated list of MSSQL WMI classes to use. | `["accessmethods", "availreplica", "bufman", "databases", "dbreplica", "genstats", "locks", "memmgr", "sqlstats", "sqlerrorstransactions"]` | no

### msmq block
Name | Type     | Description | Default | Required
---- |----------| ----------- | ------- | --------
`where_clause` | `string` | WQL 'where' clause to use in WMI metrics query. |  | no

Specifying `enabled_classes` is useful to limit the response to the MSMQs you specify, reducing the size of the response.


### logical_disk block
Name | Type     | Description | Default | Required
---- |----------| ----------- | ------- | --------
`blacklist` | `string` | Regular expression of volumes to exclude. |  | no
`whitelist` | `string` | Regular expression of volumes to include. | `".+"` | no

Volume names must match the regular expression specified by `whitelist` and must _not_ match the regular expression specified by `blacklist` to be included.

## Exported fields
The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

Name      | Type                | Description
--------- | ------------------- | -----------
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | The targets that can be used to collect `windows` metrics.

For example, the `targets` could either be passed to a `prometheus.relabel`
component to rewrite the metrics' label set, or to a `prometheus.scrape`
component that collects the exposed metrics.

The exported targets will use the configured [in-memory traffic][] address
specified by the [run command][].

[in-memory traffic]: {{< relref "../../concepts/component_controller.md#in-memory-traffic" >}}
[run command]: {{< relref "../cli/run.md" >}}

## Component health

`prometheus.exporter.windows` is only reported as unhealthy if given
an invalid configuration. In those cases, exported fields retain their last
healthy values.

## Debug information

`prometheus.exporter.windows` does not expose any component-specific
debug information.

## Debug metrics

`prometheus.exporter.windows` does not expose any component-specific
debug metrics.

## Collectors list
The following table lists the available collectors that `windows_exporter` brings
bundled in. Some collectors only work on specific operating systems; enabling a
collector that is not supported by the host OS where Flow is running
is a no-op.

Users can choose to enable a subset of collectors to limit the amount of
metrics exposed by the `prometheus.exporter.windows` component,
or disable collectors that are expensive to run.


Name     | Description | Enabled by default
---------|-------------|--------------------
[ad](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.ad.md) | Active Directory Domain Services |
[adfs](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.adfs.md) | Active Directory Federation Services |
[cache](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.cache.md) | Cache metrics |
[cpu](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.cpu.md) | CPU usage | &#10003;
[cpu_info](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.cpu_info.md) | CPU Information |
[cs](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.cs.md) | "Computer System" metrics (system properties, num cpus/total memory) | &#10003;
[container](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.container.md) | Container metrics |
[dfsr](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.dfsr.md) | DFSR metrics |
[dhcp](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.dhcp.md) | DHCP Server |
[dns](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.dns.md) | DNS Server |
[exchange](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.exchange.md) | Exchange metrics |
[fsrmquota](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.fsrmquota.md) | Microsoft File Server Resource Manager (FSRM) Quotas collector |
[hyperv](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.hyperv.md) | Hyper-V hosts |
[iis](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.iis.md) | IIS sites and applications |
[logical_disk](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.logical_disk.md) | Logical disks, disk I/O | &#10003;
[logon](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.logon.md) | User logon sessions |
[memory](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.memory.md) | Memory usage metrics |
[msmq](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.msmq.md) | MSMQ queues |
[mssql](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.mssql.md) | [SQL Server Performance Objects](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/performance-monitor/use-sql-server-objects#SQLServerPOs) metrics  |
[netframework_clrexceptions](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.netframework_clrexceptions.md) | .NET Framework CLR Exceptions |
[netframework_clrinterop](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.netframework_clrinterop.md) | .NET Framework Interop Metrics |
[netframework_clrjit](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.netframework_clrjit.md) | .NET Framework JIT metrics |
[netframework_clrloading](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.netframework_clrloading.md) | .NET Framework CLR Loading metrics |
[netframework_clrlocksandthreads](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.netframework_clrlocksandthreads.md) | .NET Framework locks and metrics threads |
[netframework_clrmemory](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.netframework_clrmemory.md) |  .NET Framework Memory metrics |
[netframework_clrremoting](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.netframework_clrremoting.md) | .NET Framework Remoting metrics |
[netframework_clrsecurity](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.netframework_clrsecurity.md) | .NET Framework Security Check metrics |
[net](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.net.md) | Network interface I/O | &#10003;
[os](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.os.md) | OS metrics (memory, processes, users) | &#10003;
[process](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.process.md) | Per-process metrics |
[remote_fx](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.remote_fx.md) | RemoteFX protocol (RDP) metrics |
[service](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.service.md) | Service state metrics | &#10003;
[smtp](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.smtp.md) | IIS SMTP Server |
[system](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.system.md) | System calls | &#10003;
[tcp](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.tcp.md) | TCP connections |
[time](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.time.md) | Windows Time Service |
[thermalzone](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.thermalzone.md) | Thermal information
[terminal_services](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.terminal_services.md) | Terminal services (RDS)
[textfile](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.textfile.md) | Read prometheus metrics from a text file |
[vmware](https://github.com/grafana/windows_exporter/blob/871715ba0b43c640257fb5ff6491b7420f23dcdd/docs/collector.vmware.md) | Performance counters installed by the Vmware Guest agent |

See the linked documentation on each collector for more information on reported metrics, configuration settings and usage examples.

## Example

This example uses a [`prometheus.scrape` component][scrape] to collect metrics
from `prometheus.exporter.windows`:

```river
prometheus.exporter.windows "default" {
}

// Configure a prometheus.scrape component to collect windows metrics.
prometheus.scrape "example" {
  targets    = prometheus.exporter.windows.this.targets
  forward_to = [ /* ... */ ]
}
```

[scrape]: {{< relref "./prometheus.scrape.md" >}}
