docs/sources/flow/reference/components/prometheus.exporter.consul.md, before:

---
# NOTE(rfratto): the title below has zero-width spaces injected into it to
# prevent it from overflowing the sidebar on the rendered site. Be careful when
# modifying this section to retain the spaces.
#
# Ideally, in the future, we can fix the overflow issue with css rather than
# injecting special characters.

title: prometheus.exporter.​consul
---

# prometheus.exporter.consul
The `prometheus.exporter.consul` component embeds
[consul_exporter](github.com/prometheus/consul_exporter) for collecting metrics from a consul instal.

## Usage

```river
prometheus.exporter.consul "LABEL" {
}
```

## Arguments
The following arguments can be used to configure the exporter's behavior.
All arguments are optional. Omitted fields take their default values.

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`server`                  | `string`   | Address (host and port) of the Consul instance we should connect to. This could be a local agent (localhost:8500, for instance), or the address of a Consul server. | `http://localhost:8500` | no
`ca_file`                 | `string`   | File path to a PEM-encoded certificate authority used to validate the authenticity of a server certificate.  | | no
`cert_file`               | `string`   | File path to a PEM-encoded certificate used with the private key to verify the exporter's authenticity. | | no
`key_file`                | `string`   | File path to a PEM-encoded private key used with the certificate to verify the exporter's authenticity. | | no
`server_name`             | `string`   | When provided, this overrides the hostname for the TLS certificate. It can be used to ensure that the certificate name matches the hostname we declare. | | no
`timeout`                 | `duration` | Timeout on HTTP requests to consul.  | 500ms | no
`insecure_skip_verify`    | `bool`     | Disable TLS host verification. | false | no
`concurrent_request_limit`| `string`   | Limit the maximum number of concurrent requests to consul, 0 means no limit. | | no
`allow_stale`             | `bool`     | Allows any Consul server (non-leader) to service a read. | `true` | no
`require_consistent`      | `bool`     | Forces the read to be fully consistent. | | no
`kv_prefix`               | `string`   | Prefix under which to look for KV pairs. | | no
`kv_filter`               | `string`   | Only store keys that match this regex pattern. | `.*` | no
`generate_health_summary` | `bool`     | Collects information about each registered service and exports `consul_catalog_service_node_healthy`. | `true` | no

## Exported fields
The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components.

Name      | Type                | Description
--------- | ------------------- | -----------
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | The targets that can be used to collect `consul` metrics.

For example, the `targets` could either be passed to a `prometheus.relabel`
component to rewrite the metrics' label set, or to a `prometheus.scrape`
component that collects the exposed metrics.

## Component health

`prometheus.exporter.consul` is only reported as unhealthy if given
an invalid configuration. In those cases, exported fields retain their last
healthy values.

## Debug information

`prometheus.exporter.consul` does not expose any component-specific
debug information.

## Debug metrics

`prometheus.exporter.consul` does not expose any component-specific
debug metrics.

## Example

This example uses a [`prometheus.scrape` component][scrape] to collect metrics
from `prometheus.exporter.consul`:

```river
prometheus.exporter.consul "example" {
  server = "https://consul.example.com:8500"
}

// Configure a prometheus.scrape component to collect consul metrics.
prometheus.scrape "demo" {
  targets    = prometheus.exporter.consul.example.targets
  forward_to = [ /* ... */ ]
}
```

[scrape]: {{< relref "./prometheus.scrape.md" >}}

Commit message:

docs: document in-memory traffic in Flow

docs/sources/flow/reference/components/prometheus.exporter.consul.md, after:

---
# NOTE(rfratto): the title below has zero-width spaces injected into it to
# prevent it from overflowing the sidebar on the rendered site. Be careful when
# modifying this section to retain the spaces.
#
# Ideally, in the future, we can fix the overflow issue with css rather than
# injecting special characters.

title: prometheus.exporter.​consul
---

# prometheus.exporter.consul
The `prometheus.exporter.consul` component embeds
[consul_exporter](github.com/prometheus/consul_exporter) for collecting metrics from a consul instal.

## Usage

```river
prometheus.exporter.consul "LABEL" {
}
```

## Arguments
The following arguments can be used to configure the exporter's behavior.
All arguments are optional. Omitted fields take their default values.

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`server`                  | `string`   | Address (host and port) of the Consul instance we should connect to. This could be a local agent (localhost:8500, for instance), or the address of a Consul server. | `http://localhost:8500` | no
`ca_file`                 | `string`   | File path to a PEM-encoded certificate authority used to validate the authenticity of a server certificate.  | | no
`cert_file`               | `string`   | File path to a PEM-encoded certificate used with the private key to verify the exporter's authenticity. | | no
`key_file`                | `string`   | File path to a PEM-encoded private key used with the certificate to verify the exporter's authenticity. | | no
`server_name`             | `string`   | When provided, this overrides the hostname for the TLS certificate. It can be used to ensure that the certificate name matches the hostname we declare. | | no
`timeout`                 | `duration` | Timeout on HTTP requests to consul.  | 500ms | no
`insecure_skip_verify`    | `bool`     | Disable TLS host verification. | false | no
`concurrent_request_limit`| `string`   | Limit the maximum number of concurrent requests to consul, 0 means no limit. | | no
`allow_stale`             | `bool`     | Allows any Consul server (non-leader) to service a read. | `true` | no
`require_consistent`      | `bool`     | Forces the read to be fully consistent. | | no
`kv_prefix`               | `string`   | Prefix under which to look for KV pairs. | | no
`kv_filter`               | `string`   | Only store keys that match this regex pattern. | `.*` | no
`generate_health_summary` | `bool`     | Collects information about each registered service and exports `consul_catalog_service_node_healthy`. | `true` | no

## Exported fields
The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components.

Name      | Type                | Description
--------- | ------------------- | -----------
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | The targets that can be used to collect `consul` metrics.

For example, the `targets` could either be passed to a `prometheus.relabel`
component to rewrite the metrics' label set, or to a `prometheus.scrape`
component that collects the exposed metrics.

The exported targets will use the configured [in-memory traffic][] address
specified by the [run command][].

[in-memory traffic]: {{< relref "../../concepts/component_controller.md#in-memory-traffic" >}}
[run command]: {{< relref "../cli/run.md" >}}

## Component health

`prometheus.exporter.consul` is only reported as unhealthy if given
an invalid configuration. In those cases, exported fields retain their last
healthy values.

## Debug information

`prometheus.exporter.consul` does not expose any component-specific
debug information.

## Debug metrics

`prometheus.exporter.consul` does not expose any component-specific
debug metrics.

## Example

This example uses a [`prometheus.scrape` component][scrape] to collect metrics
from `prometheus.exporter.consul`:

```river
prometheus.exporter.consul "example" {
  server = "https://consul.example.com:8500"
}

// Configure a prometheus.scrape component to collect consul metrics.
prometheus.scrape "demo" {
  targets    = prometheus.exporter.consul.example.targets
  forward_to = [ /* ... */ ]
}
```

[scrape]: {{< relref "./prometheus.scrape.md" >}}
