docs/sources/flow/reference/components/prometheus.exporter.oracledb.md, before:

---
# NOTE(rfratto): the title below has zero-width spaces injected into it to
# prevent it from overflowing the sidebar on the rendered site. Be careful when
# modifying this section to retain the spaces.
#
# Ideally, in the future, we can fix the overflow issue with css rather than
# injecting special characters.

title: prometheus.exporter.oracledb
---

# prometheus.exporter.oracledb
The `prometheus.exporter.oracledb` component embeds
[oracledb_exporter](https://github.com/iamseth/oracledb_exporter) for collecting statistics from a OracleDB server.

## Usage

```river
prometheus.exporter.oracledb "LABEL" {
    connection_string = "CONNECTION_STRING"
}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments can be used to configure the exporter's behavior.
Omitted fields take their default values.

| Name                | Type     | Description                                                  | Default | Required |
|---------------------|----------|--------------------------------------------------------------|---------|----------|
| `connection_string` | `secret` | The connection string used to connect to an Oracle Database. |         | yes      |
| `max_idle_conns`    | `int`    | Number of maximum idle connections in the connection pool.   | `0`     | no       |
| `max_open_conns`    | `int`    | Number of maximum open connections in the connection pool.   | `10`    | no       |
| `query_timeout`     | `int`    | The query timeout in seconds.                                | `5`     | no       |

[The oracledb_exporter running documentation](https://github.com/iamseth/oracledb_exporter/tree/master#running) shows the format and provides examples of the `connection_string` argument:
```conn
oracle://user:pass@server/service_name[?OPTION1=VALUE1[&OPTIONn=VALUEn]...]
```

## Blocks

The `prometheus.exporter.oracledb` component does not support any blocks, and is configured
fully through arguments.

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components.

| Name      | Type                | Description                                                  |
|-----------|---------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| `targets` | `list(map(string))` | The targets that can be used to collect `oracle` metrics.    |

For example, the `targets` can either be passed to a `prometheus.relabel`
component to rewrite the metric's label set, or to a `prometheus.scrape`
component that collects the exposed metrics.

The exported targets will use the configured [in-memory traffic][] address
specified by the [run command][].

[in-memory traffic]: {{< relref "../../concepts/component_controller.md#in-memory-traffic" >}}
[run command]: {{< relref "../cli/run.md" >}}

## Component health

`prometheus.exporter.oracledb` is only reported as unhealthy if given
an invalid configuration. In those cases, exported fields retain their last
healthy values.

## Debug information

`prometheus.exporter.oracledb` does not expose any component-specific
debug information.

## Debug metrics

`prometheus.exporter.oracledb` does not expose any component-specific
debug metrics.

## Example

This example uses a [`prometheus.scrape` component][scrape] to collect metrics
from `prometheus.exporter.oracledb`:

```river
prometheus.exporter.oracledb "example" {
  connection_string = "oracle://user:password@localhost:1521/orcl.localnet"
}

// Configure a prometheus.scrape component to collect oracledb metrics.
prometheus.scrape "demo" {
  targets    = prometheus.exporter.oracledb.example.targets
  forward_to = [ prometheus.remote_write.default.receiver ]
}

prometheus.remote_write "default" {
  endpoint {
    url = "REMOTE_WRITE_URL"
  }
}
```

[scrape]: {{< relref "./prometheus.scrape.md" >}}

Commit message:

add custom metrics setting to the oracledb integration

docs/sources/flow/reference/components/prometheus.exporter.oracledb.md, after:

---
# NOTE(rfratto): the title below has zero-width spaces injected into it to
# prevent it from overflowing the sidebar on the rendered site. Be careful when
# modifying this section to retain the spaces.
#
# Ideally, in the future, we can fix the overflow issue with css rather than
# injecting special characters.

title: prometheus.exporter.oracledb
---

# prometheus.exporter.oracledb

The `prometheus.exporter.oracledb` component embeds
[oracledb_exporter](https://github.com/iamseth/oracledb_exporter) for collecting statistics from a OracleDB server.

## Usage

```river
prometheus.exporter.oracledb "LABEL" {
    connection_string = "CONNECTION_STRING"
}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments can be used to configure the exporter's behavior.
Omitted fields take their default values.

| Name                | Type     | Description                                                  | Default | Required |
|---------------------|----------|--------------------------------------------------------------|---------|----------|
| `connection_string` | `secret` | The connection string used to connect to an Oracle Database. |         | yes      |
| `max_idle_conns`    | `int`    | Number of maximum idle connections in the connection pool.   | `0`     | no       |
| `max_open_conns`    | `int`    | Number of maximum open connections in the connection pool.   | `10`    | no       |
| `query_timeout`     | `int`    | The query timeout in seconds.                                | `5`     | no       |
| `custom_metrics`    | `string` | A path to a TOML file of defined custom metrics queries. The default metrics will be included on top of the custom ones.      |         | no       |

[The oracledb_exporter running documentation](https://github.com/iamseth/oracledb_exporter/tree/master#running) shows the format and provides examples of the `connection_string` argument:

The oracledb_exporter [custom metrics documentation](https://github.com/iamseth/oracledb_exporter#custom-metrics) shows the format of the TOML file used for configuring custom metrics.

```conn
oracle://user:pass@server/service_name[?OPTION1=VALUE1[&OPTIONn=VALUEn]...]
```

## Blocks

The `prometheus.exporter.oracledb` component does not support any blocks, and is configured
fully through arguments.

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components.

| Name      | Type                | Description                                                  |
|-----------|---------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| `targets` | `list(map(string))` | The targets that can be used to collect `oracle` metrics.    |

For example, the `targets` can either be passed to a `prometheus.relabel`
component to rewrite the metric's label set, or to a `prometheus.scrape`
component that collects the exposed metrics.

The exported targets will use the configured [in-memory traffic][] address
specified by the [run command][].

[in-memory traffic]: {{< relref "../../concepts/component_controller.md#in-memory-traffic" >}}
[run command]: {{< relref "../cli/run.md" >}}

## Component health

`prometheus.exporter.oracledb` is only reported as unhealthy if given
an invalid configuration. In those cases, exported fields retain their last
healthy values.

## Debug information

`prometheus.exporter.oracledb` does not expose any component-specific
debug information.

## Debug metrics

`prometheus.exporter.oracledb` does not expose any component-specific
debug metrics.

## Example

This example uses a [`prometheus.scrape` component][scrape] to collect metrics
from `prometheus.exporter.oracledb`:

```river
prometheus.exporter.oracledb "example" {
  connection_string = "oracle://user:password@localhost:1521/orcl.localnet"
}

// Configure a prometheus.scrape component to collect oracledb metrics.
prometheus.scrape "demo" {
  targets    = prometheus.exporter.oracledb.example.targets
  forward_to = [ prometheus.remote_write.default.receiver ]
}

prometheus.remote_write "default" {
  endpoint {
    url = "REMOTE_WRITE_URL"
  }
}
```

[scrape]: {{< relref "./prometheus.scrape.md" >}}
