docs/sources/flow/reference/components/prometheus.exporter.apache.md, before:

---
# NOTE(rfratto): the title below has zero-width spaces injected into it to
# prevent it from overflowing the sidebar on the rendered site. Be careful when
# modifying this section to retain the spaces.
#
# Ideally, in the future, we can fix the overflow issue with css rather than
# injecting special characters.

title: prometheus.exporter.​apache
---

# prometheus.exporter.apache
The `prometheus.exporter.apache` component embeds
[apache_exporter](https://github.com/Lusitaniae/apache_exporter) for collecting mod_status statistics from an apache server.

## Usage

```river
prometheus.exporter.apache "LABEL" {
}
```

## Arguments
The following arguments can be used to configure the exporter's behavior.
All arguments are optional. Omitted fields take their default values.

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`scrape_uri`    | `string` | URI to Apache stub status page. | `http://localhost/server-status?auto` | no
`host_override` | `string` | Override for HTTP Host header.  | | no
`insecure`      | `bool`   | Ignore server certificate if using https. | false | no

## Exported fields
The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components.

Name      | Type                | Description
--------- | ------------------- | -----------
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | The targets that can be used to collect `apache` metrics.

For example, the `targets` can either be passed to a `prometheus.relabel`
component to rewrite the metric's label set, or to a `prometheus.scrape`
component that collects the exposed metrics.

## Component health

`prometheus.exporter.apache` is only reported as unhealthy if given
an invalid configuration. In those cases, exported fields retain their last
healthy values.

## Debug information

`prometheus.exporter.apache` does not expose any component-specific
debug information.

## Debug metrics

`prometheus.exporter.apache` does not expose any component-specific
debug metrics.

## Example

This example uses a [`prometheus.scrape` component][scrape] to collect metrics
from `prometheus.exporter.apache`:

```river
prometheus.exporter.apache "example" {
  scrape_uri = "http://web.example.com/server-status?auto"
}

// Configure a prometheus.scrape component to collect apache metrics.
prometheus.scrape "demo" {
  targets    = prometheus.exporter.apache.example.targets
  forward_to = [ /* ... */ ]
}
```

[scrape]: {{< relref "./prometheus.scrape.md" >}}

Commit message:

docs: document in-memory traffic in Flow

docs/sources/flow/reference/components/prometheus.exporter.apache.md, after:

---
# NOTE(rfratto): the title below has zero-width spaces injected into it to
# prevent it from overflowing the sidebar on the rendered site. Be careful when
# modifying this section to retain the spaces.
#
# Ideally, in the future, we can fix the overflow issue with css rather than
# injecting special characters.

title: prometheus.exporter.​apache
---

# prometheus.exporter.apache
The `prometheus.exporter.apache` component embeds
[apache_exporter](https://github.com/Lusitaniae/apache_exporter) for collecting mod_status statistics from an apache server.

## Usage

```river
prometheus.exporter.apache "LABEL" {
}
```

## Arguments
The following arguments can be used to configure the exporter's behavior.
All arguments are optional. Omitted fields take their default values.

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`scrape_uri`    | `string` | URI to Apache stub status page. | `http://localhost/server-status?auto` | no
`host_override` | `string` | Override for HTTP Host header.  | | no
`insecure`      | `bool`   | Ignore server certificate if using https. | false | no

## Exported fields
The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components.

Name      | Type                | Description
--------- | ------------------- | -----------
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | The targets that can be used to collect `apache` metrics.

For example, the `targets` can either be passed to a `prometheus.relabel`
component to rewrite the metric's label set, or to a `prometheus.scrape`
component that collects the exposed metrics.

The exported targets will use the configured [in-memory traffic][] address
specified by the [run command][].

[in-memory traffic]: {{< relref "../../concepts/component_controller.md#in-memory-traffic" >}}
[run command]: {{< relref "../cli/run.md" >}}

## Component health

`prometheus.exporter.apache` is only reported as unhealthy if given
an invalid configuration. In those cases, exported fields retain their last
healthy values.

## Debug information

`prometheus.exporter.apache` does not expose any component-specific
debug information.

## Debug metrics

`prometheus.exporter.apache` does not expose any component-specific
debug metrics.

## Example

This example uses a [`prometheus.scrape` component][scrape] to collect metrics
from `prometheus.exporter.apache`:

```river
prometheus.exporter.apache "example" {
  scrape_uri = "http://web.example.com/server-status?auto"
}

// Configure a prometheus.scrape component to collect apache metrics.
prometheus.scrape "demo" {
  targets    = prometheus.exporter.apache.example.targets
  forward_to = [ /* ... */ ]
}
```

[scrape]: {{< relref "./prometheus.scrape.md" >}}
