docs/sources/flow/reference/components/prometheus.exporter.statsd.md, before:

---
# NOTE(rfratto): the title below has zero-width spaces injected into it to
# prevent it from overflowing the sidebar on the rendered site. Be careful when
# modifying this section to retain the spaces.
#
# Ideally, in the future, we can fix the overflow issue with css rather than
# injecting special characters.

title: prometheus.exporter.statsd
---

# prometheus.exporter.statsd
The `prometheus.exporter.statsd` component embeds
[statsd_exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/statsd_exporter) for collecting StatsD-style metrics and exporting them as Prometheus metrics.

## Usage

```river
prometheus.exporter.statsd "LABEL" {
    
}
```

## Arguments
The following arguments can be used to configure the exporter's behavior.
All arguments are optional. Omitted fields take their default values.

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`listen_udp`                                      | `string`       | The UDP address on which to receive statsd metric lines. Use "" to disable it. | `9125` | no
`listen_tcp`                                      | `string`       | The TCP address on which to receive statsd metric lines. Use "" to disable it. | `9125` | no
`listen_unixgram`                                 | `string`       | The Unixgram socket path to receive statsd metric lines in datagram. Use "" to disable it. | | no
`unix_socket_mode`                                | `string`       | The permission mode of the unix socket. | `755` | no
`mapping_config_path`                             | `string`       | The path to a YAML mapping file used to translate specific dot-separated StatsD metrics into labeled Prometheus metrics. | | no
`read_buffer`                                     | `int`          | Size (in bytes) of the operating system's transmit read buffer associated with the UDP or Unixgram connection. | | no
`cache_size`                                      | `int`          | Maximum size of your metric mapping cache. Relies on least recently used replacement policy if max size is reached. | `1000` | no
`cache_type`                                      | `string`       | Metric mapping cache type. Valid options are "lru" and "random". | `lru` | no
`event_queue_size`                                | `int`          | Size of internal queue for processing events. | `10000` | no
`event_flush_threshold`                           | `int`          | Number of events to hold in queue before flushing. | `1000`| no
`event_flush_interval`                            | `string`       | Maximum time between event queue flushes. | `200ms`| no
`parse_dogstatsd_tags`                            | `string`       | Parse DogStatsd style tags. | `true`| no
`parse_influxdb_tags`                             | `string`       | Parse InfluxDB style tags. | `true`| no
`parse_librato_tags`                              | `string`       | Parse Librato style tags. | `true`| no
`parse_signalfx_tags`                             | `string`       | Parse SignalFX style tags. | `true`| no

At least one of `listen_udp`, `listen_tcp`, or `listen_unixgram` should be enabled.
For details on how to use the mapping config file, please check the official 
[statsd_exporter docs](https://github.com/prometheus/statsd_exporter#metric-mapping-and-configuration).
Please make sure the kernel parameter `net.core.rmem_max` is set to a value greater 
than the value specified in `read_buffer`.

### Blocks

The `prometheus.exporter.statsd` component does not support any blocks, and is configured 
fully through arguments.

## Exported fields
The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components.

Name      | Type                | Description
--------- | ------------------- | -----------
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | The targets that can be used to collect `statsd` metrics.

For example, the `targets` could either be passed to a `prometheus.relabel`
component to rewrite the metrics' label set, or to a `prometheus.scrape`
component that collects the exposed metrics.

## Component health

`prometheus.exporter.statsd` is only reported as unhealthy if given
an invalid configuration. In those cases, exported fields retain their last
healthy values.

## Debug information

`prometheus.exporter.statsd` does not expose any component-specific
debug information.

## Debug metrics

`prometheus.exporter.statsd` does not expose any component-specific
debug metrics.

## Example

This example uses a [`prometheus.scrape` component][scrape] to collect metrics
from `prometheus.exporter.statsd`:

```river
prometheus.exporter.statsd "example" {
  listen_udp = ""
  listen_tcp = "9125"
  listen_unixgram = ""
  unix_socket_mode = "755"
  mapping_config_path = "mapTest.yaml"
  read_buffer = 1
  cache_size = 1000
  cache_type = "lru"
  event_queue_size = 10000
  event_flush_threshold = 1000
  event_flush_interval = "200ms"
  parse_dogstatsd_tags = true
  parse_influxdb_tags = true
  parse_librato_tags = true
  parse_signalfx_tags = true
}

// Configure a prometheus.scrape component to collect statsd metrics.
prometheus.scrape "demo" {
  targets    = prometheus.exporter.statsd.example.targets
  forward_to = [ /* ... */ ]
}
```

[scrape]: {{< relref "./prometheus.scrape.md" >}}

Commit message:

Support in-memory HTTP connections for scraping (#3602)
* flow: support in-memory HTTP traffic

This adds an in-memory HTTP traffic listener so components which
communicate to other components through HTTP (e.g., for scraping
Prometheus metrics endpoints) do not need to use the network.

This is required to allow prometheus.scrape to continue to collect
metrics from prometheus.exporter.* components if the HTTP server is
protected by mTLS; otherwise, prometheus.scrape will not work until
configured with support for mTLS.

Closes #2984.

* prometheus.scrape: use custom dialer for opening conns to targets

This updates prometheus.scrape to use the custom dialer passed to it for
opening connections to targets.

This allows prometheus.scrape to properly scrape metrics from the
in-memory HTTP listener.

* docs: document in-memory traffic in Flow

* misc: add CHANGELOG entry for in-memory HTTP traffic

Co-authored-by: Paschalis Tsilias <tpaschalis@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/sources/flow/reference/components/prometheus.exporter.statsd.md, after:

---
# NOTE(rfratto): the title below has zero-width spaces injected into it to
# prevent it from overflowing the sidebar on the rendered site. Be careful when
# modifying this section to retain the spaces.
#
# Ideally, in the future, we can fix the overflow issue with css rather than
# injecting special characters.

title: prometheus.exporter.statsd
---

# prometheus.exporter.statsd
The `prometheus.exporter.statsd` component embeds
[statsd_exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/statsd_exporter) for collecting StatsD-style metrics and exporting them as Prometheus metrics.

## Usage

```river
prometheus.exporter.statsd "LABEL" {

}
```

## Arguments
The following arguments can be used to configure the exporter's behavior.
All arguments are optional. Omitted fields take their default values.

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`listen_udp`                                      | `string`       | The UDP address on which to receive statsd metric lines. Use "" to disable it. | `9125` | no
`listen_tcp`                                      | `string`       | The TCP address on which to receive statsd metric lines. Use "" to disable it. | `9125` | no
`listen_unixgram`                                 | `string`       | The Unixgram socket path to receive statsd metric lines in datagram. Use "" to disable it. | | no
`unix_socket_mode`                                | `string`       | The permission mode of the unix socket. | `755` | no
`mapping_config_path`                             | `string`       | The path to a YAML mapping file used to translate specific dot-separated StatsD metrics into labeled Prometheus metrics. | | no
`read_buffer`                                     | `int`          | Size (in bytes) of the operating system's transmit read buffer associated with the UDP or Unixgram connection. | | no
`cache_size`                                      | `int`          | Maximum size of your metric mapping cache. Relies on least recently used replacement policy if max size is reached. | `1000` | no
`cache_type`                                      | `string`       | Metric mapping cache type. Valid options are "lru" and "random". | `lru` | no
`event_queue_size`                                | `int`          | Size of internal queue for processing events. | `10000` | no
`event_flush_threshold`                           | `int`          | Number of events to hold in queue before flushing. | `1000`| no
`event_flush_interval`                            | `string`       | Maximum time between event queue flushes. | `200ms`| no
`parse_dogstatsd_tags`                            | `string`       | Parse DogStatsd style tags. | `true`| no
`parse_influxdb_tags`                             | `string`       | Parse InfluxDB style tags. | `true`| no
`parse_librato_tags`                              | `string`       | Parse Librato style tags. | `true`| no
`parse_signalfx_tags`                             | `string`       | Parse SignalFX style tags. | `true`| no

At least one of `listen_udp`, `listen_tcp`, or `listen_unixgram` should be enabled.
For details on how to use the mapping config file, please check the official
[statsd_exporter docs](https://github.com/prometheus/statsd_exporter#metric-mapping-and-configuration).
Please make sure the kernel parameter `net.core.rmem_max` is set to a value greater
than the value specified in `read_buffer`.

### Blocks

The `prometheus.exporter.statsd` component does not support any blocks, and is configured
fully through arguments.

## Exported fields
The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components.

Name      | Type                | Description
--------- | ------------------- | -----------
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | The targets that can be used to collect `statsd` metrics.

For example, the `targets` could either be passed to a `prometheus.relabel`
component to rewrite the metrics' label set, or to a `prometheus.scrape`
component that collects the exposed metrics.

The exported targets will use the configured [in-memory traffic][] address
specified by the [run command][].

[in-memory traffic]: {{< relref "../../concepts/component_controller.md#in-memory-traffic" >}}
[run command]: {{< relref "../cli/run.md" >}}

## Component health

`prometheus.exporter.statsd` is only reported as unhealthy if given
an invalid configuration. In those cases, exported fields retain their last
healthy values.

## Debug information

`prometheus.exporter.statsd` does not expose any component-specific
debug information.

## Debug metrics

`prometheus.exporter.statsd` does not expose any component-specific
debug metrics.

## Example

This example uses a [`prometheus.scrape` component][scrape] to collect metrics
from `prometheus.exporter.statsd`:

```river
prometheus.exporter.statsd "example" {
  listen_udp = ""
  listen_tcp = "9125"
  listen_unixgram = ""
  unix_socket_mode = "755"
  mapping_config_path = "mapTest.yaml"
  read_buffer = 1
  cache_size = 1000
  cache_type = "lru"
  event_queue_size = 10000
  event_flush_threshold = 1000
  event_flush_interval = "200ms"
  parse_dogstatsd_tags = true
  parse_influxdb_tags = true
  parse_librato_tags = true
  parse_signalfx_tags = true
}

// Configure a prometheus.scrape component to collect statsd metrics.
prometheus.scrape "demo" {
  targets    = prometheus.exporter.statsd.example.targets
  forward_to = [ /* ... */ ]
}
```

[scrape]: {{< relref "./prometheus.scrape.md" >}}
