docs/sources/flow/reference/components/prometheus.exporter.redis.md, before:

---
# NOTE(rfratto): the title below has zero-width spaces injected into it to
# prevent it from overflowing the sidebar on the rendered site. Be careful when
# modifying this section to retain the spaces.
#
# Ideally, in the future, we can fix the overflow issue with css rather than
# injecting special characters.

title: prometheus.exporter.redis
---

# prometheus.exporter.redis
The `prometheus.exporter.redis` component embeds
[redis_exporter](https://github.com/oliver006/redis_exporter) for collecting metrics from a Redis database.

## Usage

```river
prometheus.exporter.redis "LABEL" {
    redis_addr = "REDIS_ADDRESS"
}
```

## Arguments
The following arguments can be used to configure the exporter's behavior.
Omitted fields take their default values.

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`redis_addr`                  | `string`       | Address (host and port) of the Redis instance to connect to.  | | yes
`redis_user`                  | `string`       | User name to use for authentication (Redis ACL for Redis 6.0 and newer).  | | no
`redis_password`              | `secret`       | Password of the Redis instance. | | no
`redis_password_file`         | `string`       | Path of a file containing a password.  | | no
`redis_password_map_file`     | `string`       | Path of a JSON file containing a map of Redis URIs to passwords. | | no
`namespace`                   | `string`       | Namespace for the metrics.  | `"redis"` | no
`config_command`              | `string`       | What to use for the CONFIG command. | `"CONFIG"` | no
`check_keys`                  | `list(string)` | List of key-patterns to export value and length/size, searched for with SCAN. | | no
`check_key_groups`            | `list(string)` | List of Lua regular expressions (regex) for grouping keys. | | no
`check_key_groups_batch_size` | `int`          | Check key or key groups batch size hint for the underlying SCAN. | `10000` | no
`max_distinct_key_groups`     | `int`          | The maximum number of distinct key groups with the most memory utilization to present as distinct metrics per database. | `100` | no
`check_single_keys`           | `list(string)` | List of single keys to export value and length/size. | | no
`check_streams`               | `list(string)` | List of stream-patterns to export info about streams, groups, and consumers to search for with SCAN. | | no
`check_single_streams`        | `list(string)` | List of single streams to export info about streams, groups, and consumers. | | no
`count_keys`                  | `list(string)` | List of individual keys to export counts for. | | no
`script_path`                 | `string`       | Path to Lua Redis script for collecting extra metrics. | | no
`script_paths`                | `list(string)` | List of paths to Lua Redis scripts for collecting extra metrics. | | no
`connection_timeout`          | `duration`     | Timeout for connection to Redis instance (in Golang duration format). | `"15s"` | no
`tls_client_key_file`         | `string`       | Name of the client key file (including full path) if the server requires TLS client authentication. | | no
`tls_client_cert_file`        | `string`       | Name of the client certificate file (including full path) if the server requires TLS client authentication. | | no
`tls_ca_cert_file`            | `string`       | Name of the CA certificate file (including full path) if the server requires TLS client authentication. | | no
`set_client_name`             | `bool`         | Whether to set client name to `redis_exporter`. | `true` | no
`is_tile38`                   | `bool`         | Whether to scrape Tile38-specific metrics. | | no
`is_cluster`                  | `bool`         | Whether the connection is to a Redis cluster. | | no
`export_client_list`          | `bool`         | Whether to scrape Client List specific metrics. | | no
`export_client_port`          | `bool`         | Whether to include the client's port when exporting the client list. | | no
`redis_metrics_only`          | `bool`         | Whether to just export metrics or to also export go runtime metrics. | | no
`ping_on_connect`             | `bool`         | Whether to ping the Redis instance after connecting. | | no
`incl_system_metrics`         | `bool`         | Whether to include system metrics (e.g. `redis_total_system_memory_bytes`). | | no
`skip_tls_verification`       | `bool`         | Whether to to skip TLS verification. | | no

If `redis_password_file` is defined, it will take precedence over `redis_password`.

When `check_key_groups` is not set, no key groups are made.

The `check_key_groups_batch_size` argument name reflects key groups for backwards compatibility, but applies to both key and key groups.

The `script_path` argument may also be specified as a comma-separated string of paths, though it is encouraged to use `script_paths` when using
multiple Lua scripts.

Any leftover key groups beyond `max_distinct_key_groups` are aggregated in the 'overflow' bucket.

The `is_cluster` argument must be set to `true` when connecting to a Redis cluster and using either of the `check_keys` and `check_single_keys` arguments.

Note that setting `export_client_port` increases the cardinality of all Redis metrics.

## Exported fields
The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components.

Name      | Type                | Description
--------- | ------------------- | -----------
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | The targets that can be used to collect `redis` metrics.

For example, `targets` can either be passed to a `prometheus.relabel`
component to rewrite the metrics' label set, or to a `prometheus.scrape`
component that collects the exposed metrics.

## Component health

`prometheus.exporter.redis` is only reported as unhealthy if given
an invalid configuration. In those cases, exported fields retain their last
healthy values.

## Debug information

`prometheus.exporter.redis` does not expose any component-specific
debug information.

## Debug metrics

`prometheus.exporter.redis` does not expose any component-specific
debug metrics.

## Example

This example uses a [`prometheus.scrape` component][scrape] to collect metrics
from `prometheus.exporter.redis`:

```river
prometheus.exporter.redis "example" {
  redis_addr = "localhost:6379"
}

// Configure a prometheus.scrape component to collect Redis metrics.
prometheus.scrape "demo" {
  targets    = prometheus.exporter.redis.example.targets
  forward_to = [ /* ... */ ]
}
```

[scrape]: {{< relref "./prometheus.scrape.md" >}}

Commit message:

docs: document in-memory traffic in Flow

docs/sources/flow/reference/components/prometheus.exporter.redis.md, after:

---
# NOTE(rfratto): the title below has zero-width spaces injected into it to
# prevent it from overflowing the sidebar on the rendered site. Be careful when
# modifying this section to retain the spaces.
#
# Ideally, in the future, we can fix the overflow issue with css rather than
# injecting special characters.

title: prometheus.exporter.redis
---

# prometheus.exporter.redis
The `prometheus.exporter.redis` component embeds
[redis_exporter](https://github.com/oliver006/redis_exporter) for collecting metrics from a Redis database.

## Usage

```river
prometheus.exporter.redis "LABEL" {
    redis_addr = "REDIS_ADDRESS"
}
```

## Arguments
The following arguments can be used to configure the exporter's behavior.
Omitted fields take their default values.

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`redis_addr`                  | `string`       | Address (host and port) of the Redis instance to connect to.  | | yes
`redis_user`                  | `string`       | User name to use for authentication (Redis ACL for Redis 6.0 and newer).  | | no
`redis_password`              | `secret`       | Password of the Redis instance. | | no
`redis_password_file`         | `string`       | Path of a file containing a password.  | | no
`redis_password_map_file`     | `string`       | Path of a JSON file containing a map of Redis URIs to passwords. | | no
`namespace`                   | `string`       | Namespace for the metrics.  | `"redis"` | no
`config_command`              | `string`       | What to use for the CONFIG command. | `"CONFIG"` | no
`check_keys`                  | `list(string)` | List of key-patterns to export value and length/size, searched for with SCAN. | | no
`check_key_groups`            | `list(string)` | List of Lua regular expressions (regex) for grouping keys. | | no
`check_key_groups_batch_size` | `int`          | Check key or key groups batch size hint for the underlying SCAN. | `10000` | no
`max_distinct_key_groups`     | `int`          | The maximum number of distinct key groups with the most memory utilization to present as distinct metrics per database. | `100` | no
`check_single_keys`           | `list(string)` | List of single keys to export value and length/size. | | no
`check_streams`               | `list(string)` | List of stream-patterns to export info about streams, groups, and consumers to search for with SCAN. | | no
`check_single_streams`        | `list(string)` | List of single streams to export info about streams, groups, and consumers. | | no
`count_keys`                  | `list(string)` | List of individual keys to export counts for. | | no
`script_path`                 | `string`       | Path to Lua Redis script for collecting extra metrics. | | no
`script_paths`                | `list(string)` | List of paths to Lua Redis scripts for collecting extra metrics. | | no
`connection_timeout`          | `duration`     | Timeout for connection to Redis instance (in Golang duration format). | `"15s"` | no
`tls_client_key_file`         | `string`       | Name of the client key file (including full path) if the server requires TLS client authentication. | | no
`tls_client_cert_file`        | `string`       | Name of the client certificate file (including full path) if the server requires TLS client authentication. | | no
`tls_ca_cert_file`            | `string`       | Name of the CA certificate file (including full path) if the server requires TLS client authentication. | | no
`set_client_name`             | `bool`         | Whether to set client name to `redis_exporter`. | `true` | no
`is_tile38`                   | `bool`         | Whether to scrape Tile38-specific metrics. | | no
`is_cluster`                  | `bool`         | Whether the connection is to a Redis cluster. | | no
`export_client_list`          | `bool`         | Whether to scrape Client List specific metrics. | | no
`export_client_port`          | `bool`         | Whether to include the client's port when exporting the client list. | | no
`redis_metrics_only`          | `bool`         | Whether to just export metrics or to also export go runtime metrics. | | no
`ping_on_connect`             | `bool`         | Whether to ping the Redis instance after connecting. | | no
`incl_system_metrics`         | `bool`         | Whether to include system metrics (e.g. `redis_total_system_memory_bytes`). | | no
`skip_tls_verification`       | `bool`         | Whether to to skip TLS verification. | | no

If `redis_password_file` is defined, it will take precedence over `redis_password`.

When `check_key_groups` is not set, no key groups are made.

The `check_key_groups_batch_size` argument name reflects key groups for backwards compatibility, but applies to both key and key groups.

The `script_path` argument may also be specified as a comma-separated string of paths, though it is encouraged to use `script_paths` when using
multiple Lua scripts.

Any leftover key groups beyond `max_distinct_key_groups` are aggregated in the 'overflow' bucket.

The `is_cluster` argument must be set to `true` when connecting to a Redis cluster and using either of the `check_keys` and `check_single_keys` arguments.

Note that setting `export_client_port` increases the cardinality of all Redis metrics.

## Exported fields
The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components.

Name      | Type                | Description
--------- | ------------------- | -----------
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | The targets that can be used to collect `redis` metrics.

For example, `targets` can either be passed to a `prometheus.relabel`
component to rewrite the metrics' label set, or to a `prometheus.scrape`
component that collects the exposed metrics.

The exported targets will use the configured [in-memory traffic][] address
specified by the [run command][].

[in-memory traffic]: {{< relref "../../concepts/component_controller.md#in-memory-traffic" >}}
[run command]: {{< relref "../cli/run.md" >}}

## Component health

`prometheus.exporter.redis` is only reported as unhealthy if given
an invalid configuration. In those cases, exported fields retain their last
healthy values.

## Debug information

`prometheus.exporter.redis` does not expose any component-specific
debug information.

## Debug metrics

`prometheus.exporter.redis` does not expose any component-specific
debug metrics.

## Example

This example uses a [`prometheus.scrape` component][scrape] to collect metrics
from `prometheus.exporter.redis`:

```river
prometheus.exporter.redis "example" {
  redis_addr = "localhost:6379"
}

// Configure a prometheus.scrape component to collect Redis metrics.
prometheus.scrape "demo" {
  targets    = prometheus.exporter.redis.example.targets
  forward_to = [ /* ... */ ]
}
```

[scrape]: {{< relref "./prometheus.scrape.md" >}}
