docs/sources/static/set-up/install-agent-macos.md, before:

---
title: Install static mode on macOS
weight: 130
aliases:
- ../../set-up/install-agent-macos/
---

## Install static mode on macOS

Install Grafana Agent and get it up and running on macOS.

> **Note:** If you intend to ship your data to Grafana Cloud, you can set up Grafana Agent using a Grafana Cloud integration. See [how to install an integration](/docs/grafana-cloud/data-configuration/integrations/install-and-manage-integrations/) and details about the [macOS integration](/docs/grafana-cloud/data-configuration/integrations/integration-reference/integration-macos-node/).

### Overview
Use Homebrew to install the most recent released version of Grafana using the Homebrew package. You can also install Grafana Agent on macOS using the macOS binary.

### Steps

1. Open a terminal and enter:

   ```
   brew update
   brew install grafana-agent
   ```

    The brew page downloads and enters the files into:
    - /usr/local/Cellar/grafana-agent/[version] (Homebrew v2)
    - /opt/homebrew/Cellar/grafana-agent/[version] (Homebrew v3)
    - Grafana Agent logs should be located in `/opt/homebrew/var/log/` though this path may differ depending on the version of Homebrew.

1. Run the following commands:

    ```
    mkdir -p $(brew --prefix)/etc/grafana-agent/
    touch $(brew --prefix)/etc/grafana-agent/config.yml
    ```

1. Modify `config.yml` with your configuration requirements.

    See [Configure Grafana Agent for details]({{< relref "../configuration/" >}}).

1. Start Grafana Agent using the command:

    ` brew services start grafana-agent`

    For logs, see:
    - stdout: `$(brew --prefix)/var/log/grafana-agent.log`
    - stderr: `$(brew --prefix)/var/log/grafana-agent.err.log`

1. Enter the following command to upgrade Grafana Agent:

    `brew upgrade grafana-agent`.

Commit message:

Update Agent static install on macOS topic (#4006)
* Reorganize content and fix typos

* Remove note about binary install

* Remove obsolete v2 homebrew note

* Small simplification of sentences

(cherry picked from commit 274af0d57f45dffafa751612208e5e2cf1eebb66)

docs/sources/static/set-up/install-agent-macos.md, after:

---
title: macOS
weight: 130
aliases:
- ../../set-up/install-agent-macos/
---

# Install Grafana Agent on macOS

You can use Homebrew to install Grafana Agent on macOS.

## Before you begin

Ensure that [Homebrew][] is installed on your machine.

[Homebrew]: https://brew.sh

## Install Grafana Agent with Homebrew

1. Open a terminal and run the following commands:

   ```
   brew update
   brew install grafana-agent
   ```

    The brew install command downloads Grafana Agent and installs it at `/opt/homebrew/Cellar/grafana-agent/VERSION`.
    
    Grafana Agent logs are in `/opt/homebrew/var/log/` by default.

1. Open a terminal and run the following commands:

    ```
    mkdir -p $(brew --prefix)/etc/grafana-agent/
    touch $(brew --prefix)/etc/grafana-agent/config.yml
    ```

1. Modify `config.yml` with your configuration requirements.

    Refer to [Configure Grafana Agent]({{< relref "../configuration/" >}}) for informatuon about the Agent configuration .

1. Open a terminal and run the following command to start Grafana Agent:

    ` brew services start grafana-agent`

    For logs, see:
    - stdout: `$(brew --prefix)/var/log/grafana-agent.log`
    - stderr: `$(brew --prefix)/var/log/grafana-agent.err.log`

1. Open a terminal and run the following command to upgrade Grafana Agent:

    `brew upgrade grafana-agent`.

{{% admonition type="note" %}}
To send your data to Grafana Cloud, set up Grafana Agent using the Grafana Cloud integration. Refer to [how to install an integration](/docs/grafana-cloud/data-configuration/integrations/install-and-manage-integrations/) and [macOS integration](/docs/grafana-cloud/data-configuration/integrations/integration-reference/integration-macos-node/).
{{%/admonition %}}
