docs/sources/flow/setup/install/docker.md, before:

---
description: Learn how to install GRafana Agent Flow on Docker
title: Install Grafana Agent Flow on Docker
menuTitle: Docker
weight: 200
aliases:
 - ../../install/docker/
---

# Install Grafana Agent Flow on Docker

Grafana Agent Flow is available as Docker images on the following platforms:

* [Linux containers][] for AMD64 and ARM64 machines.
* [Windows containers][] for AMD64 machines.

[Linux containers]: #run-a-linux-docker-container
[Windows containers]: #run-a-windows-docker-container

## Before you begin

* Ensure that [Docker][] is installed and running on your machine.

* Ensure that you have an existing Grafana Agent Flow configuration file to
  use saved on your host system, such as:

  ```river
  logging {
    level  = "info"
    format = "logfmt"
  }
  ```

[Docker]: https://docker.io

## Run a Linux Docker container

To run Grafana Agent Flow as a Linux Docker container, perform the following
steps:

1. Run the following command in a terminal:

   ```shell
   docker run \
     -e AGENT_MODE=flow \
     -v CONFIG_FILE_PATH:/etc/agent/config.river \
     -p 12345:12345 \
     grafana/agent:latest \
       run --server.http.listen-addr=0.0.0.0:12345 /etc/agent/config.river
   ```

   Replace `CONFIG_FILE_PATH` with the path of the configuration file to use on
   your host system.

The last line may be modified to change the arguments passed to the Grafana
Agent Flow binary. To see the set of options available to the `run` command,
refer to the documentation for [run][].

> **NOTE**: Make sure to pass `--server.http.listen-addr=0.0.0.0:12345` as an
> argument like in the example above, otherwise the [debugging UI][] won't be
> available outside of the Docker container.

[debugging UI]: {{< relref "../../monitoring/debugging.md#grafana-agent-flow-ui" >}}
[run]: {{< relref "../../reference/cli/run.md" >}}

## Run a Windows Docker container

To run Grafana Agent Flow as a Windows Docker container, perform the following
steps:

1. Run the following command in a terminal:

   ```shell
   docker run \
     -e AGENT_MODE=flow \
     -v CONFIG_FILE_PATH:C:\etc\grafana-agent\config.river \
     -p 12345:12345 \
     grafana/agent:latest-windows \
       run --server.http.listen-addr=0.0.0.0:12345 C:\etc\grafana-agent\config.river
   ```

   Replace `CONFIG_FILE_PATH` with the path of the configuration file to use on
   your host system.

The last line may be modified to change the arguments passed to the Grafana
Agent Flow binary. To see the set of options available to the `run` command,
refer to the documentation for [run][].

> **NOTE**: Make sure to pass `--server.http.listen-addr=0.0.0.0:12345` as an
> argument like in the example above, otherwise the [debugging UI][] won't be
> available outside of the Docker container.

[debugging UI]: {{< relref "../../monitoring/debugging.md#grafana-agent-flow-ui" >}}
[run]: {{< relref "../../reference/cli/run.md" >}}

## Result

After following these steps, Grafana Agent Flow should be successfully running
in Docker.

To validate that Grafana Agent Flow is running successfully, navigate to
<http://localhost:12345> to ensure that the Grafana Agent Flow [UI][] loads
without error.

[UI]: {{< relref "../../monitoring/debugging.md#grafana-agent-flow-ui" >}}

Commit message:

Update Grafana Agent install, config, and start topics (#4290) (#4309)
* Update install config and start for consistency

* Fix copy paste error

* Rework mode content for flow mode

* Add more context for flow mode

* Additional updates for consistency

* Fix optional markdown

(cherry picked from commit 654e2c54676be05bd834b8a69a5962c453bd182a)

docs/sources/flow/setup/install/docker.md, after:

---
description: Learn how to install Grafana Agent in flow mode on Docker
title: Install Grafana Agent in flow mode on Docker
menuTitle: Docker
weight: 100
aliases:
 - ../../install/docker/
---

# Install Grafana Agent in flow mode on Docker

Grafana Agent is available as Docker images on the following platforms:

* [Linux containers][] for AMD64 and ARM64 machines.
* [Windows containers][] for AMD64 machines.

[Linux containers]: #run-a-linux-docker-container
[Windows containers]: #run-a-windows-docker-container

## Before you begin

* Install [Docker][] on your computer.
* Create and save a Grafana Agent River configuration file on your computer, for example:

  ```river
  logging {
    level  = "info"
    format = "logfmt"
  }
  ```

[Docker]: https://docker.io

## Run a Linux Docker container

To run Grafana Agent in flow mode as a Linux Docker container, perform the following steps:

1. Run the following command in a terminal window:

   ```shell
   docker run \
     -e AGENT_MODE=flow \
     -v CONFIG_FILE_PATH:/etc/agent/config.river \
     -p 12345:12345 \
     grafana/agent:latest \
       run --server.http.listen-addr=0.0.0.0:12345 /etc/agent/config.river
   ```

   Replace `CONFIG_FILE_PATH` with the path of the configuration file on
   your host system.

The last line may be modified to change the arguments passed to the Grafana
Agent binary. To see the set of options available to the `run` command,
refer to the documentation for [run][].

{{% admonition type="note" %}}
Make sure you pass `--server.http.listen-addr=0.0.0.0:12345` as an
argument as shown in the example above. If you don't pass this argument, the [debugging UI][] won't be
available outside of the Docker container.
{{% /admonition %}}

[debugging UI]: {{< relref "../../monitoring/debugging.md#grafana-agent-flow-ui" >}}
[run]: {{< relref "../../reference/cli/run.md" >}}

## Run a Windows Docker container

To run Grafana Agent in flow mode as a Windows Docker container, perform the following
steps:

1. Run the following command in a terminal window:

   ```shell
   docker run \
     -e AGENT_MODE=flow \
     -v CONFIG_FILE_PATH:C:\etc\grafana-agent\config.river \
     -p 12345:12345 \
     grafana/agent:latest-windows \
       run --server.http.listen-addr=0.0.0.0:12345 C:\etc\grafana-agent\config.river
   ```

   Replace `CONFIG_FILE_PATH` with the path of the configuration file on
   your host system.

The last line may be modified to change the arguments passed to the Grafana
Agent binary. To see the set of options available to the `run` command,
refer to the documentation for [run][].

{{% admonition type="note" %}}
Make sure you pass `--server.http.listen-addr=0.0.0.0:12345` as an
argument as shown in the example above. If you don't pass this argument, the [debugging UI][] won't be
available outside of the Docker container.
{{% /admonition %}}

[debugging UI]: {{< relref "../../monitoring/debugging.md#grafana-agent-flow-ui" >}}
[run]: {{< relref "../../reference/cli/run.md" >}}

## Verify

To verify that Grafana Agent is running successfully, navigate to
<http://localhost:12345> and make sure the Grafana Agent [UI][] loads
without error.

[UI]: {{< relref "../../monitoring/debugging.md#grafana-agent-flow-ui" >}}
