docs/sources/flow/setup/install/windows.md, before:

---
description: Learn how to install Grafana Agent Flow on Windows
title: Install Grafana Agent Flow on Windows
menuTitle: Windows
weight: 400
aliases:
 - ../../install/windows/
---

# Install Grafana Agent Flow on Windows

You can install Grafana Agent Flow on Windows with the stanadard graphical installer, or as a silent install.

## Graphical install

1. Navigate to the [latest release][latest].

1. Scroll down to the **Assets** section.

1. Download the file called `grafana-agent-flow-installer.exe.zip`.

1. Unzip the downloaded file.

1. Double-click on the unzipped installer to run it.

[latest]: https://github.com/grafana/agent/releases/latest

## Silent install

1. Navigate to the [latest release][latest].

1. Scroll down to the **Assets** section.

1. Download the file called `grafana-agent-flow-installer.exe.zip`.

1. Unzip the downloaded file.

1. Run the following command in PowerShell or Command Prompt:

   ```shell
   PATH_TO_INSTALLER /S
   ```

   Replace `PATH_TO_INSTALLER` with the path where the unzipped installer
   executable is located, such as
   `C:\Users\Alexis\Downloads\grafana-agent-flow-installer.exe`.

[latest]: https://github.com/grafana/agent/releases/latest

## Uninstall

You can uninstall Grafana Agent Flow with Windows Remove Programs or `C:\Program Files\Grafana Agent\uninstaller.exe`. Uninstalling Grafana Agent Flow will stop the service and remove it from disk. This includes any configuration files in the installation directory. 

Grafana Agent Flow can also be silently uninstalled by running `uninstall.exe /S` as Administrator.

Commit message:

Update Grafana Agent install, config, and start topics (#4290) (#4309)
* Update install config and start for consistency

* Fix copy paste error

* Rework mode content for flow mode

* Add more context for flow mode

* Additional updates for consistency

* Fix optional markdown

(cherry picked from commit 654e2c54676be05bd834b8a69a5962c453bd182a)

docs/sources/flow/setup/install/windows.md, after:

---
description: Learn how to install Grafana Agent in flow mode on Windows
title: Install Grafana Agent in flow mode on Windows
menuTitle: Windows
weight: 500
aliases:
 - ../../install/windows/
---

# Install Grafana Agent in flow mode on Windows

You can install Grafana Agent in flow mode on Windows with the standard graphical installer, or as a silent install.

## Graphical install

To do a standard graphical install of Grafana Agent on Windows, perform the following steps.

1. Navigate to the [latest release][latest].

1. Scroll down to the **Assets** section.

1. Download the file called `grafana-agent-flow-installer.exe.zip`.

1. Unzip the downloaded file.

1. Double-click on the unzipped installer to run it.

[latest]: https://github.com/grafana/agent/releases/latest

## Silent install

To do a silent install of Grafana Agent on Windows, perform the following steps.

1. Navigate to the [latest release][latest].

1. Scroll down to the **Assets** section.

1. Download the file called `grafana-agent-flow-installer.exe.zip`.

1. Unzip the downloaded file.

1. Run the following command in PowerShell or Command Prompt:

   ```shell
   PATH_TO_INSTALLER /S
   ```

   Replace `PATH_TO_INSTALLER` with the path where the unzipped installer
   executable is located, for example
   `C:\Users\Alexis\Downloads\grafana-agent-flow-installer.exe`.

[latest]: https://github.com/grafana/agent/releases/latest

## Uninstall

You can uninstall Grafana Agent with Windows Remove Programs or `C:\Program Files\Grafana Agent\uninstaller.exe`. Uninstalling Grafana Agent will stop the service and remove it from disk. This includes any configuration files in the installation directory. 

Grafana Agent can also be silently uninstalled by running `uninstall.exe /S` as Administrator.

## Next steps

- [Start Grafana Agent]({{< relref "../start-agent#windows" >}})
- [Configure Grafana Agent]({{< relref "../configure/configure-windows" >}})
