docs/sources/flow/monitoring/debugging.md, before:

---
title: Debugging
weight: 300
---

# Debugging

Follow these steps to debug issues with Grafana Agent Flow:

1. Use the Grafana Agent Flow UI to debug issues.
2. If the UI doesn't help with debugging an issue, logs can be examined
   instead.

## Grafana Agent Flow UI

Grafana Agent Flow includes an embedded UI viewable from Grafana Agent's HTTP
server, which defaults to listening at `http://localhost:12345`.

> The documentation for the [`grafana-agent run`][grafana-agent run] command describes how to
> modify the address Grafana Agent listens on for HTTP traffic.

### Home page

![](../../../assets/ui_home_page.png)

The home page shows a table of components defined in the config file along with
their health.

Click **View** on a row in the table to navigate to the [Component detail page](#component-detail-page)
for that component.

Click the Grafana Agent logo to navigate back to the home page.

### Graph page

![](../../../assets/ui_graph_page.png)

The **Graph** page shows a graph view of components defined in the config file
along with their health. Clicking a component in the graph navigates to the
[Component detail page](#component-detail-page) for that component.

### Component detail page

![](../../../assets/ui_component_detail_page.png)

The component detail page shows the following information for each component:

* The health of the component with a message explaining the health.
* The current evaluated arguments for the component.
* The current exports for the component.
* The current debug info for the component (if the component has debug info).

> Values marked as a [secret][] are obfuscated and will display as the text
> `(secret)`.

## Debugging using the UI

To debug using the UI:

* Ensure that no component is reported as unhealthy.
* Ensure that the arguments and exports for misbehaving components appear
  correct.

[grafana-agent run]: {{< relref "../reference/cli/run.md" >}}
[secret]: {{< relref "../config-language/expressions/types_and_values.md#secrets" >}}

## Examining logs

Logs may also help debug issues with Grafana Agent Flow.

To reduce logging noise, many components hide debugging info behind debug-level
log lines. It is recommended that you configure the [`logging block`][logging]
to show debug-level log lines when debugging issues with Grafana Agent Flow.

The location of Grafana Agent's logs is different based on how it is deployed.
Refer to the [`logging block`][logging] page to see how to find logs for your
system.

[logging]: {{< relref "../reference/config-blocks/logging.md" >}}

Commit message:

docs: document how to expose the UI to other machines on the network (#3796)
The default listen address for non-containerized installations is
`localhost`, which prevents other machines on the network from being
able to see the UI.

This default behavior may not be obvious to people, so this commit
documents that behavior more clearly and instructs people on how to
change the listen address.

Co-authored-by: Erik Baranowski <39704712+erikbaranowski@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/sources/flow/monitoring/debugging.md, after:

---
title: Debugging
weight: 300
---

# Debugging

Follow these steps to debug issues with Grafana Agent Flow:

1. Use the Grafana Agent Flow UI to debug issues.
2. If the UI doesn't help with debugging an issue, logs can be examined
   instead.

## Grafana Agent Flow UI

Grafana Agent Flow includes an embedded UI viewable from Grafana Agent's HTTP
server, which defaults to listening at `http://localhost:12345`.

> **NOTE**: For security reasons, installations of Grafana Agent Flow on
> non-containerized platforms default to listening on `localhost`. default
> prevents other machines on the network from being able to view the UI.
>
> To expose the UI to other machines on the network on non-containerized
> platforms, refer to the documentation for how you [installed][install]
> Grafana Agent Flow.
>
> If you are running a custom installation of Grafana Agent Flow, refer to the
> documentation for [the `grafana-agent run` command][grafana-agent run] to
> learn how to change the HTTP listen address, and pass the appropriate flag
> when running Grafana Agent Flow.
>
> [install]: {{< relref "../install/" >}}

[grafana-agent run]: {{< relref "../reference/cli/run.md" >}}

### Home page

![](../../../assets/ui_home_page.png)

The home page shows a table of components defined in the config file along with
their health.

Click **View** on a row in the table to navigate to the [Component detail page](#component-detail-page)
for that component.

Click the Grafana Agent logo to navigate back to the home page.

### Graph page

![](../../../assets/ui_graph_page.png)

The **Graph** page shows a graph view of components defined in the config file
along with their health. Clicking a component in the graph navigates to the
[Component detail page](#component-detail-page) for that component.

### Component detail page

![](../../../assets/ui_component_detail_page.png)

The component detail page shows the following information for each component:

* The health of the component with a message explaining the health.
* The current evaluated arguments for the component.
* The current exports for the component.
* The current debug info for the component (if the component has debug info).

> Values marked as a [secret][] are obfuscated and will display as the text
> `(secret)`.

[secret]: {{< relref "../config-language/expressions/types_and_values.md#secrets" >}}

## Debugging using the UI

To debug using the UI:

* Ensure that no component is reported as unhealthy.
* Ensure that the arguments and exports for misbehaving components appear
  correct.

## Examining logs

Logs may also help debug issues with Grafana Agent Flow.

To reduce logging noise, many components hide debugging info behind debug-level
log lines. It is recommended that you configure the [`logging` block][logging]
to show debug-level log lines when debugging issues with Grafana Agent Flow.

The location of Grafana Agent's logs is different based on how it is deployed.
Refer to the [`logging` block][logging] page to see how to find logs for your
system.

[logging]: {{< relref "../reference/config-blocks/logging.md" >}}
