docs/sources/flow/install/linux.md, before:

---
title: Linux systems
weight: 300
---

# Install Grafana Agent Flow on Linux systems

Grafana Agent Flow can be installed as a systemd service on various AMD64 and
ARM64 Linux systems:

* [Debian-based systems](#install-on-debian-based-systems)
* [RedHat-based systems](#install-on-redhat-based-systems)

## Install on Debian-based systems

To install Grafana Agent Flow on Debian-based systems (such as Debian or
Ubuntu), complete the following steps:

1. Open a terminal and run the following command to install Grafana's package repository:

   ```shell
   mkdir -p /etc/apt/keyrings/
   wget -q -O - https://apt.grafana.com/gpg.key | gpg --dearmor > /etc/apt/keyrings/grafana.gpg
   echo "deb [signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/grafana.gpg] https://apt.grafana.com stable main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/grafana.list
   ```

2. With the repository installed, update the list of available packages:

   ```shell
   sudo apt-get update
   ```

3. Install the Grafana Agent Flow package:

   ```shell
   sudo apt-get install grafana-agent-flow
   ```

## Install on RedHat-based systems

To install Grafana Agent Flow on RedHat-based systems (such as CentOS, Fedora,
or RedHat Enterprise Linux), complete the following steps:

1. Create `/etc/yum.repos.d/grafana.repo` with the following content:

   ```
   [grafana]
   name=grafana
   baseurl=https://rpm.grafana.com
   repo_gpgcheck=1
   enabled=1
   gpgcheck=1
   gpgkey=https://rpm.grafana.com/gpg.key
   sslverify=1
   sslcacert=/etc/pki/tls/certs/ca-bundle.crt
   ```

2. Verify that the repository is properly configured using
   `yum-config-manager`:

   ```shell
   yum-config-manager grafana
   ```

3. Install the Grafana Agent Flow package:

   ```shell
   sudo yum install grafana-agent-flow
   ```

## Operation guide

After installing Grafana Agent Flow on Linux, it will be exposed as a
[systemd][] service.

[systemd]: https://systemd.io/

### Run Grafana Agent Flow

To run Grafana Agent Flow, run the following command in a terminal:

```shell
sudo systemctl start grafana-agent-flow
```

To check the status of Grafana Agent Flow, run the following command in a
terminal:

```shell
sudo systemctl status grafana-agent-flow
```

### Run Grafana Agent Flow on startup

To automatically run Grafana Agent Flow when the system starts, run the
following command in a terminal:

```shell
sudo systemctl enable grafana-agent-flow.service
```

### Configuring Grafana Agent Flow

To configure Grafana Agent Flow when installed on Linux, perform the following
steps:

1. Edit the default configuration file at `/etc/grafana-agent-flow.river`.

2. Run the following command in a terminal to reload the configuration file:

   ```shell
   sudo systemctl reload grafana-agent-flow
   ```

To change the configuration file used by the service, perform the following steps:

1. Edit the environment file for the service:

   * Debian-based systems: edit `/etc/default/grafana-agent-flow`
   * RedHat-based systems: edit `/etc/sysconfig/grafana-agent-flow`

2. Change the contents of the `CONFIG_FILE` environment variable to point to
   the new configuration file to use.

3. Restart the Grafana Agent Flow service:

   ```shell
   sudo systemctl restart grafana-agent-flow
   ```

### Passing additional command-line flags

By default, the Grafana Agent Flow service will launch with the [run][]
command, passing the following flags:

* `--storage.path=/var/lib/grafana-agent-flow`

To pass additional command-line flags to the Grafana Agent Flow binary, perform
the following steps:

1. Edit the environment file for the service:

   * Debian-based systems: edit `/etc/default/grafana-agent-flow`
   * RedHat-based systems: edit `/etc/sysconfig/grafana-agent-flow`

2. Change the contents of the `CUSTOM_ARGS` environment variable to specify
   command-line flags to pass.

3. Restart the Grafana Agent Flow service:

   ```shell
   sudo systemctl restart grafana-agent-flow
   ```

To see the list of valid command-line flags that can be passed to the service,
refer to the documentation for the [run][] command.

[run]: {{< relref "../reference/cli/run.md" >}}

### Viewing Grafana Agent Flow logs

Logs of Grafana Agent Flow can be found by running the following command in a
terminal:

```shell
sudo journalctl -u grafana-agent-flow
```

Commit message:

docs: document how to expose the UI to other machines on the network (#3796)
The default listen address for non-containerized installations is
`localhost`, which prevents other machines on the network from being
able to see the UI.

This default behavior may not be obvious to people, so this commit
documents that behavior more clearly and instructs people on how to
change the listen address.

Co-authored-by: Erik Baranowski <39704712+erikbaranowski@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/sources/flow/install/linux.md, after:

---
title: Linux systems
weight: 300
---

# Install Grafana Agent Flow on Linux systems

Grafana Agent Flow can be installed as a systemd service on various AMD64 and
ARM64 Linux systems:

* [Debian-based systems](#install-on-debian-based-systems)
* [RedHat-based systems](#install-on-redhat-based-systems)

## Install on Debian-based systems

To install Grafana Agent Flow on Debian-based systems (such as Debian or
Ubuntu), complete the following steps:

1. Open a terminal and run the following command to install Grafana's package repository:

   ```shell
   mkdir -p /etc/apt/keyrings/
   wget -q -O - https://apt.grafana.com/gpg.key | gpg --dearmor > /etc/apt/keyrings/grafana.gpg
   echo "deb [signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/grafana.gpg] https://apt.grafana.com stable main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/grafana.list
   ```

2. With the repository installed, update the list of available packages:

   ```shell
   sudo apt-get update
   ```

3. Install the Grafana Agent Flow package:

   ```shell
   sudo apt-get install grafana-agent-flow
   ```

## Install on RedHat-based systems

To install Grafana Agent Flow on RedHat-based systems (such as CentOS, Fedora,
or RedHat Enterprise Linux), complete the following steps:

1. Create `/etc/yum.repos.d/grafana.repo` with the following content:

   ```
   [grafana]
   name=grafana
   baseurl=https://rpm.grafana.com
   repo_gpgcheck=1
   enabled=1
   gpgcheck=1
   gpgkey=https://rpm.grafana.com/gpg.key
   sslverify=1
   sslcacert=/etc/pki/tls/certs/ca-bundle.crt
   ```

2. Verify that the repository is properly configured using
   `yum-config-manager`:

   ```shell
   yum-config-manager grafana
   ```

3. Install the Grafana Agent Flow package:

   ```shell
   sudo yum install grafana-agent-flow
   ```

## Operation guide

After installing Grafana Agent Flow on Linux, it will be exposed as a
[systemd][] service.

[systemd]: https://systemd.io/

### Run Grafana Agent Flow

To run Grafana Agent Flow, run the following command in a terminal:

```shell
sudo systemctl start grafana-agent-flow
```

To check the status of Grafana Agent Flow, run the following command in a
terminal:

```shell
sudo systemctl status grafana-agent-flow
```

### Run Grafana Agent Flow on startup

To automatically run Grafana Agent Flow when the system starts, run the
following command in a terminal:

```shell
sudo systemctl enable grafana-agent-flow.service
```

### Configuring Grafana Agent Flow

To configure Grafana Agent Flow when installed on Linux, perform the following
steps:

1. Edit the default configuration file at `/etc/grafana-agent-flow.river`.

2. Run the following command in a terminal to reload the configuration file:

   ```shell
   sudo systemctl reload grafana-agent-flow
   ```

To change the configuration file used by the service, perform the following steps:

1. Edit the environment file for the service:

   * Debian-based systems: edit `/etc/default/grafana-agent-flow`
   * RedHat-based systems: edit `/etc/sysconfig/grafana-agent-flow`

2. Change the contents of the `CONFIG_FILE` environment variable to point to
   the new configuration file to use.

3. Restart the Grafana Agent Flow service:

   ```shell
   sudo systemctl restart grafana-agent-flow
   ```

### Passing additional command-line flags

By default, the Grafana Agent Flow service will launch with the [run][]
command, passing the following flags:

* `--storage.path=/var/lib/grafana-agent-flow`

To pass additional command-line flags to the Grafana Agent Flow binary, perform
the following steps:

1. Edit the environment file for the service:

   * Debian-based systems: edit `/etc/default/grafana-agent-flow`
   * RedHat-based systems: edit `/etc/sysconfig/grafana-agent-flow`

2. Change the contents of the `CUSTOM_ARGS` environment variable to specify
   command-line flags to pass.

3. Restart the Grafana Agent Flow service:

   ```shell
   sudo systemctl restart grafana-agent-flow
   ```

To see the list of valid command-line flags that can be passed to the service,
refer to the documentation for the [run][] command.

[run]: {{< relref "../reference/cli/run.md" >}}

### Exposing the UI to other machines

By default, Grafana Agent Flow listens on the local network for its HTTP
server. This prevents other machines on the network from being able to access
the [UI for debugging][UI].

To expose the UI to other machines, complete the following steps:

1. Follow [Passing additional command-line flags](#passing-additional-command-line-flags)
   to edit command line flags passed to Grafana Agent Flow, including the
   following customizations:

    1. Add the following command line argument to `CUSTOM_ARGS`:

       ```
       --server.http.listen-addr=LISTEN_ADDR:12345
       ```

       Replace `LISTEN_ADDR` with an address which other machines on the
       network have access to, like the network IP address of the machine
       Grafana Agent Flow is running on.

       To listen on all interfaces, replace `LISTEN_ADDR` with `0.0.0.0`.

[UI]: {{< relref "../monitoring/debugging.md#grafana-agent-flow-ui" >}}

### Viewing Grafana Agent Flow logs

Logs of Grafana Agent Flow can be found by running the following command in a
terminal:

```shell
sudo journalctl -u grafana-agent-flow
```
