docs/sources/flow/install/macos.md, before:

---
title: macOS
weight: 500
---

# Install Grafana Agent Flow on macOS

Grafana Agent Flow can be installed on Intel and Apple Silicon macOS machines.

## Before you begin

* Ensure that [Homebrew][] is installed on your machine.

[Homebrew]: https://brew.sh

## Install

To install Grafana Agent Flow on macOS, perform the following steps:

1. Add the Grafana Homebrew tap by running the following command in a terminal
   window:

   ```shell
   brew tap grafana/grafana
   ```

2. Install the Grafana Agent Flow formula by running the following command in a
   terminal window:

   ```shell
   brew install grafana-agent-flow
   ```

## Operation guide

After installing Grafana Agent Flow on macOS, it will be exposed as a
launchd service.

### Run Grafana Agent Flow

To run Grafana Agent Flow, run the following command in a terminal:

```shell
brew services start grafana-agent-flow
```

After running this command, Grafana Agent Flow will be running as a service and
will automatically run on system startup.

To check the status of Grafana Agent Flow, run the following command in a
terminal:

```shell
brew services info grafana-agent-flow
```

### Configuring Grafana Agent Flow

To configure Grafana Agent Flow when installed on macOS, perform the following
steps:

1. Edit the default configuration file at
   `$(brew --prefix)/etc/grafana-agent-flow/config.river`.

2. Run the following command in a terminal to restart the Grafana Agent Flow
   service:

   ```shell
   brew services restart grafana-agent-flow
   ```

### Configuring the Grafana Agent Flow service

> **NOTE**: Due to limitations in Homebrew, customizing the service used by
> Grafana Agent Flow on macOS requires changing the Homebrew formula and
> reinstalling Grafana Agent Flow.

To customize the Grafana Agent Flow service on macOS, perform the following
steps:

1. Run the following command in a terminal:

   ```shell
   brew edit grafana-agent-flow
   ```

   This will open the Grafana Agent Flow Homebrew Formula in an editor.

2. Modify the `service` section as desired to change things such as:

   * The configuration file used by Grafana Agent Flow.
   * Flags passed to the Grafana Agent Flow binary.
   * Location of log files.

   When done, save the resulting formula file.

3. Reinstall the Grafana Agent Flow Formula by running the following command in
   a terminal:

   ```shell
   brew reinstall grafana-agent-flow
   ```

4. Restart the Grafana Agent Flow service by running the command in a terminal:

   ```shell
   brew services restart grafana-agent-flow
   ```

### Viewing Grafana Agent Flow logs

By default, logs are written to `$(brew --prefix)/var/log/grafana-agent.log` and
`$(brew --prefix)/var/log/grafana-agent-flow.err.log`.

If you followed [Configuring the Grafana Agent Flow service](#configuring-the-grafana-agent-flow-service)
and changed the path where logs are written, refer to your current copy of the
Grafana Agent Flow formula to locate log files.

Commit message:

docs: document how to expose the UI to other machines on the network (#3796)
The default listen address for non-containerized installations is
`localhost`, which prevents other machines on the network from being
able to see the UI.

This default behavior may not be obvious to people, so this commit
documents that behavior more clearly and instructs people on how to
change the listen address.

Co-authored-by: Erik Baranowski <39704712+erikbaranowski@users.noreply.github.com>
(cherry picked from commit 3df214cc11749575537f7ee9e272573fcf28ad7b)

docs/sources/flow/install/macos.md, after:

---
title: macOS
weight: 500
---

# Install Grafana Agent Flow on macOS

Grafana Agent Flow can be installed on Intel and Apple Silicon macOS machines.

## Before you begin

* Ensure that [Homebrew][] is installed on your machine.

[Homebrew]: https://brew.sh

## Install

To install Grafana Agent Flow on macOS, perform the following steps:

1. Add the Grafana Homebrew tap by running the following command in a terminal
   window:

   ```shell
   brew tap grafana/grafana
   ```

2. Install the Grafana Agent Flow formula by running the following command in a
   terminal window:

   ```shell
   brew install grafana-agent-flow
   ```

## Operation guide

After installing Grafana Agent Flow on macOS, it will be exposed as a
launchd service.

### Run Grafana Agent Flow

To run Grafana Agent Flow, run the following command in a terminal:

```shell
brew services start grafana-agent-flow
```

After running this command, Grafana Agent Flow will be running as a service and
will automatically run on system startup.

To check the status of Grafana Agent Flow, run the following command in a
terminal:

```shell
brew services info grafana-agent-flow
```

### Configuring Grafana Agent Flow

To configure Grafana Agent Flow when installed on macOS, perform the following
steps:

1. Edit the default configuration file at
   `$(brew --prefix)/etc/grafana-agent-flow/config.river`.

2. Run the following command in a terminal to restart the Grafana Agent Flow
   service:

   ```shell
   brew services restart grafana-agent-flow
   ```

### Configuring the Grafana Agent Flow service

> **NOTE**: Due to limitations in Homebrew, customizing the service used by
> Grafana Agent Flow on macOS requires changing the Homebrew formula and
> reinstalling Grafana Agent Flow.

To customize the Grafana Agent Flow service on macOS, perform the following
steps:

1. Run the following command in a terminal:

   ```shell
   brew edit grafana-agent-flow
   ```

   This will open the Grafana Agent Flow Homebrew Formula in an editor.

2. Modify the `service` section as desired to change things such as:

   * The configuration file used by Grafana Agent Flow.
   * Flags passed to the Grafana Agent Flow binary.
   * Location of log files.

   When done, save the resulting formula file.

3. Reinstall the Grafana Agent Flow Formula by running the following command in
   a terminal:

   ```shell
   brew reinstall grafana-agent-flow
   ```

4. Restart the Grafana Agent Flow service by running the command in a terminal:

   ```shell
   brew services restart grafana-agent-flow
   ```

### Exposing the UI to other machines

By default, Grafana Agent Flow listens on the local network for its HTTP
server. This prevents other machines on the network from being able to access
the [UI for debugging][UI].

To expose the UI to other machines, complete the following steps:

1. Follow [Configuring the Grafana Agent Flow service](#configuring-the-grafana-agent-flow-service)
   to edit command line flags passed to Grafana Agent Flow, including the
   following customizations:

    1. Modify the line inside the `service` block containing
       `--server.http.listen-addr=127.0.0.1:12345`, replacing `127.0.0.1` with
       the address which other machines on the network have access to, like the
       network IP address of the machine Grafana Agent Flow is running on.

       To listen on all interfaces, replace `127.0.0.1` with `0.0.0.0`.

[UI]: {{< relref "../monitoring/debugging.md#grafana-agent-flow-ui" >}}

### Viewing Grafana Agent Flow logs

By default, logs are written to `$(brew --prefix)/var/log/grafana-agent.log` and
`$(brew --prefix)/var/log/grafana-agent-flow.err.log`.

If you followed [Configuring the Grafana Agent Flow service](#configuring-the-grafana-agent-flow-service)
and changed the path where logs are written, refer to your current copy of the
Grafana Agent Flow formula to locate log files.
